=== page 1 ===
U.S. Energy Information Administration   |   Petroleum Supply Monthly
122
    September 2026
The following are the Refining Districts which make up the Petroleum
Administration for Defense (PAD) Districts.
PAD District I
East Coast: The District of Columbia and the States of Maine, New 
Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, 
New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South 
Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and the following counties of the State of 
New York: Cayuga, Tompkins, Chemung, and all counties east and 
north thereof. Also the following counties in the State of Pennsylvania: 
Bradford, Sullivan, Columbia, Montour, Northumberland, Dauphin, 
York, and all counties east thereof.
Appalachian No. 1: The State of West Virginia and those parts of the
States of Pennsylvania and New York not included in the East Coast 
District.
Sub-PAD District I
New England: The States of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, 
NewHampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
Central Atlantic: The District of Columbia and the States of Delaware,
Maryland, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania.
Lower Atlantic: The States of Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia.
PAD District II
Indiana-Illinois-Kentucky: The States of Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, 
Tennessee, Michigan, and Ohio.
Minnesota-Wisconsin-North and South Dakota: The States of 
Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, and South Dakota.
Oklahoma-Kansas-Missouri: The States of Oklahoma, Kansas, 
Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa.
PAD District III
Texas Inland: The State of Texas except the Texas Gulf Coast District.
Texas Gulf Coast: The following counties of the State of Texas: 
Newton, Orange, Jefferson, Jasper, Tyler, Hardin, Liberty, Chambers, 
Polk, San Jacinto, Montgomery, Harris, Galveston, Waller, Fort 
Bend, Brazoria, Wharton, Matagorda, Jackson, Victoria, Calhoun, 
Refugio, Aransas, San Patricio, Nueces, Kleberg, Kenedy, Willacy, 
and Cameron.
Louisiana Gulf Coast: The following Parishes of the State of 
Louisiana: Vernon, Rapides, Avoyelles, Pointe Coupee, West 
Feliciana, East Feliciana, Saint Helena, Tangipahoa, Washington, and 
all Parishes south thereof. Also the following counties of the State 
of Mississippi: Pearl River, Stone, George, Hancock, Harrison, and 
Jackson. Also the following counties of the State of Alabama: Mobile 
and Baldwin.
North Louisiana-Arkansas: The State of Arkansas and those parts of 
the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama not included in the 
Louisiana Gulf Coast District.
New Mexico: The State of New Mexico.
PAD District IV
Rocky Mountain: The States of Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, 
and Colorado.
PAD District V
West Coast: The States of Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada, 
Arizona, Alaska, and Hawaii.
Appendix A
District Descriptions and Maps

=== page 2 ===
123
U.S. Energy Information Administration   |   Petroleum Supply Monthly
    September 2026
