URL: https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=67944
FETCHED: 2026-10-06

 
 

 
 
 
 
 United States on track for record natural gas production in 2026 -
 U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 Skip to sub-navigation 
 
 
 U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 Menu

 

 

 
 
 Statistics

 

 
 Analysis

 

 
 Tools

 

 
 Education

 

 
 News

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Enter Search Term(s): 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 






 
 
 
 Today in Energy 

 

 Skip to page content 
 
 
 
 Recent articles 

 
 
 Browse by tag 
 
 
 
 
 liquid fuels 
 

 
 natural gas 
 

 
 electricity 
 

 
 oil/petroleum 
 

 
 production/supply 
 

 
 crude oil 
 

 
 consumption/demand 
 

 
 generation 
 

 
 prices 
 

 
 map 
 

 
 states 
 

 
 exports/imports 
 

 
 international 
 

 
 coal 
 

 
 renewables 
 

 
 weather 
 

 
 forecasts/projections 
 

 
 gasoline 
 

 
 capacity 
 

 
 steo (short-term energy outlook) 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 Prices 
 

 
 
 Archive 
 

 
 
 About 
 

 
 

 
 
 Glossary 
 FAQS 
 

 



 


 

 
 
 
 
 In-brief analysis 

 August 12, 2026 
 
 United States on track for record natural gas production in 2026 

 
 












 
 
 

 
 
 Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook , August 2026

 Note: 1H2026=first half of 2026
 

 


 We forecast U.S. marketed natural gas production will average 122.5 billion cubic feet per day (Bcf/d) in 2026, surpassing the previous record of 118.5 Bcf/d set in 2025, in our August 2026 Short-Term Energy Outlook (STEO). 



 

 
In the first half of 2026 (1H26), marketed natural gas production averaged 121.3 Bcf/d, 4% (4.6 Bcf/d) more than the same period in 2025. Most of this expansion is concentrated in the Permian region in Texas and New Mexico and the Haynesville region in Louisiana and Texas. 



 
The United States was the world’s largest producer of natural gas from 2009 through 2024, the most recent year for which we have global natural gas production data.



 

 
 
 Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook , August 2026
 

 


 
We forecast Permian gas production will average 29.2 Bcf/d in 2026, 6% more than in 2025. In the Permian region, natural gas production is driven primarily by associated gas produced during crude oil extraction and is supported by crude oil prices. 



 
 West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil prices rose from an average of $65/barrel (b) in 2025 to an average of $84/b through July 2026, exceeding the region’s breakeven price—the minimum price needed for an operation to cover its costs. Oil industry executives responding to the Dallas Fed Energy survey reported the two largest basins in the Permian had breakeven prices of $69/b (Midland Basin) and $63/b (Delaware Basin) in 2026. The relatively high prices support oil-directed drilling in the Permian region and the resulting rise in both crude oil and natural gas production. 



 
In addition to crude oil prices, a steadily increasing gas-to-oil ratio (GOR) in the Permian is contributing to growth in Permian natural gas production. As more oil and natural gas are produced, pressure within the reservoir declines. Natural gas is easier to produce at lower pressures than oil, so the GOR increases.



 
In the Haynesville region, natural gas production increased by 1.1 Bcf/d (7%) in 1H26 compared with 1H25. We forecast Haynesville natural gas production will increase 9% (1.3 Bcf/d) in 2026. Drilling in the Haynesville formation—which, at 10,500 feet to 13,500 feet deep , is one of the deepest in the U.S. Lower 48 states—has higher development costs associated with drilling deeper wells. Unlike Permian operators who drill mostly for oil, Haynesville operators drill mostly for natural gas. So, Haynesville production is driven by the natural gas benchmark Henry Hub price. 



 
We forecast the Henry Hub spot price will fall by 2% (8 cents) to average $3.44 per million British thermal units in 2026. At this forecast price, drilling in the Haynesville remains economical despite the relatively deeper wells and more expensive development costs. In addition, the Haynesville’s proximity to liquefied natural gas export terminals and major industrial natural gas consumers along the U.S. Gulf Coast draws operators to actively drill in the region.



 Principal contributors: Trinity Manning-Pickett, Naser Ameen







 
 
 Tags: 
 natural gas , production/supply , STEO (Short-Term Energy Outlook) 

 

 

 
 More recent articles › 
 

 

 

 

 

 



 
 
 
 
 
 About EIA 

 Open Data 

 Legacy 

 Contact Us 

 
 

 
 U.S. Energy Information Administration

 1000 Independence Ave., SW

 Washington, DC 20585

 

 

 
 
 Policies

 Privacy/Security 

 Copyright & Reuse 

 Accessibility 

 
 Information Quality 

 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 

 
 Related Sites

 usa.gov 

 U.S. Department of Energy 

 
 Stay Connected

 Facebook 

 X 

 
 Youtube 

 LinkedIn 

 
 Email Updates 

 RSS Feeds 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Statistics

 Analysis

 Tools

 Education

 News

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Petroleum & Other Liquids 
 

 Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Natural Gas 
 

 Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales.

 
 


 
 
 
 
 Electricity 
 

 Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand & emissions.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Coal 
 

 Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Nuclear & Uranium 
 

 Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel.

 
 


 
 
 
 
 Renewable & Alternative Fuels 
 

 Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol.

 
 


 
 
 
 
 EIA Survey Forms 
 

 Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.

 
 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 Total Energy 
 

 Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources.

 
 
 Monthly Energy Review 
 

 
 Annual Energy Review 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 Consumption & Efficiency 
 

 Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation.

 
 
 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) 
 

 
 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) 
 

 
 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 U.S. States 
 

 State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.

 
 
 State Energy Data System (SEDS) 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 International 
 

 International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.

 
 
 International Energy Statistics 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 

 Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions.

 
 U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions 

 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016 

 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level 

 
 
 

 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Analysis and Projections 
 

 Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports.

 
 
 Short-Term Energy Outlook 
 

 
 Annual Energy Outlook 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Special Reports 
 

 Special market analysis and/or data requests.

 
 
 EIA-112 Residential Utility Disconnections 
 

 
 SHIP Act 
 

 
 Energy & Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices? 
 

 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 

 International energy analyses.

 
 
 Regional Analysis Briefs 
 

 
 Country Analysis Briefs 
 

 
 World Oil Transit Chokepoints 
 

 
 OPEC Revenue 
 


 
 Global Energy Security Data 
 


 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Glossary 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Data Tools, Apps, & Maps 
 

 Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Open Data 
 

 EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets

 
 

 
 
 
 
 EIA Beta 
 

 Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think!

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Open Source Code 
 

 EIA's open source code, available on GitHub.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 All Reports & Products 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 







 
 

 
 
 
 
 EIA Survey Forms 
 

 Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Email Updates 
 

 Sign up for email subscriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products

 
 

 
 
 
 
 RSS Feeds 
 

 Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New.

 
 

 
 
 
 Follow us. . .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 A-Z Index 
 

 
 A |
 B |
 C |
 D |
 E |
 F |
 G |
 H |
 I |
 J |
 K |
 L |
 M |
 N |
 O |
 P |
 Q |
 R |
 S |
 T |
 U |
 V |
 W |
 XYZ 
 

 
 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Today in Energy 
 

 Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Energy Explained 
 

 
 
 
 What is Energy? 
 

 
 Units & Calculators 
 

 
 U.S. Energy Facts 
 

 
 Use of Energy 
 

 
 Energy & Environment 
 

 
 Petroleum 
 

 
 Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids 
 

 
 Natural Gas 
 

 
 
 
 Coal 
 

 
 Nuclear 
 

 
 Electricity 
 

 
 Hydrogen 
 

 
 Hydropower 
 

 
 Biofuels 
 

 
 Biomass 
 

 
 Wind 
 

 
 Geothermal 
 

 
 Solar 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 For Teachers 
 

 Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Glossary 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 FAQs 
 

 
 
 
 Coal 
 

 
 Conversion & Equivalents 
 

 
 Oil/Petroleum 
 

 
 Diesel 
 

 
 Electricity 
 

 
 Environment 
 

 
 
 
 Gasoline 
 

 
 General Energy 
 

 
 Natural Gas 
 

 
 Nuclear 
 

 
 Prices 
 

 
 Renewables 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 What's New? 

 
 Quarterly Coal Report—Second Quarter 2026 
 Oct 01, 2026
 Wholesale Electricity Market Data 
 Oct 01, 2026
 Petroleum Marketing Monthly 
 Oct 01, 2026
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Press Room 
 

 
 
 Press Releases 
 

 
 Congressional Testimony 
 

 
 Presentations 
 

 
 Events 
 

 
 
 


 

 

 

 


 
 
 