URL: https://www.eia.gov/analysis/drilling/curve_analysis/
FETCHED: 2026-10-06

 
 
 
 Production Decline Curve Analysis - Energy Information Administration 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 



 
 
 
 U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis 
 U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 Skip to sub-navigation 
 
 
 U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 Menu

 

 

 
 
 Statistics

 

 
 Analysis

 

 
 Tools

 

 
 Education

 

 
 News

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Enter Search Term(s): 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 



 
 
 
 Analysis & Projections




 
 Glossary › FAQS › 
 
 Overview 

 Projection Data 

 
 
 Monthly short-term forecasts through the next calendar year 

 Annual projections to 2050 

 International projections 

 All projections reports 

 
 


 Analysis & Projections 


 

 
 Major Topics

 
 Most popular 

 AEO (Annual Energy Outlook) 

 Congressional & other requests 

 IEO (International Energy Outlook) 

 STEO (Short-Term Energy Outlook) 

 All reports 

 
 


 
 Find by

 
 Alphabetical 

 Recurring 

 Tag Cloud 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Coming soon

 -->
 Decline curves 

 -->
 Previous editions: 
 2022 

 2021 

 2020 

 
 

 
 



 
 Production Decline Curve Analysis in the Annual Energy Outlook 

 Release date: March 16, 2023

 
 This analysis was conducted for AEO2022 and has been discontinued.


 
 A key assumption in evaluating the expected profitability of drilling a well is the estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) of the well. EIA uses an automated routine to analyze the production decline curve of shale and tight oil and natural gas wells. The hyperbolic decline curve gives a general estimate of production for a specific month as

 
 

 

 The initial production rate, parameter, and initial decline rate are estimated from observed well-level production data. The first observed month of production is excluded from the decline curve estimation because the timing of the start of production in the first calendar month is unknown and could incorporate anywhere from 1 to 31 days of actual production. Production in all other months is normalized to 30.4 days. The decline curve converts from a hyperbolic decline to an exponential decline when the monthly decline rate falls to 0.8% (10% annual decline). An example of a production profile using a hyperbolic decline curve is shown in Figure 1.

 

 
 The routine examines wells drilled since 2008 in tight and shale plays with at least four months of production so that EIA can evaluate the change in EUR over time. For every Annual Energy Outlook (AEO), the assumed EUR per well for each play is updated every summer to reflect the latest technological and operational improvements and is typically based on the production performance of wells drilled within the past two years. Generally, by the time the AEO is released in January, the most recent data are from 10 to 18 months earlier. This annual reevaluation is particularly important in those tight oil and shale gas plays that have been undergoing rapid development. For example, since 2003, drilling in most tight oil and shale gas plays has shifted from vertical wells to horizontal wells. EURs based on vertical well performance in these plays will not accurately estimate production from future drilling because the new wells are expected to be primarily horizontal.

 The EUR for a well is calculated as the sum of the observed monthly production values plus the sum of the monthly production values estimated using the decline curve, starting the month after the last observed production month through month 360 (30 years in total). Because the EUR per well varies widely not only across plays but also within a play, each play within each basin is divided into subplays—first across states (if applicable) and then into counties. The shape of the average county-level EUR per well is determined by the following steps:

 
 Grouping the current wells in the county

 Averaging the production

 Fitting the average production to a hyperbolic decline curve using the curve-fitting routine described above

 
 However, because the number of months each well has been in production will vary across wells in each county, production for each well is first extended to the maximum number of months a well has produced in the county. This approach reduces the skewing of the average to the older wells.



 
 
 

 


 


 



 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 About EIA 

 Open Data 

 Legacy 

 Contact Us 

 
 

 
 U.S. Energy Information Administration

 1000 Independence Ave., SW

 Washington, DC 20585

 

 

 
 
 Policies

 Privacy/Security 

 Copyright & Reuse 

 Accessibility 

 
 Information Quality 

 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 

 
 Related Sites

 usa.gov 

 U.S. Department of Energy 

 
 Stay Connected

 Facebook 

 X 

 
 Youtube 

 LinkedIn 

 
 Email Updates 

 RSS Feeds 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Statistics

 Analysis

 Tools

 Education

 News

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Petroleum & Other Liquids 
 

 Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Natural Gas 
 

 Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales.

 
 


 
 
 
 
 Electricity 
 

 Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand & emissions.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Coal 
 

 Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Nuclear & Uranium 
 

 Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel.

 
 


 
 
 
 
 Renewable & Alternative Fuels 
 

 Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol.

 
 


 
 
 
 
 EIA Survey Forms 
 

 Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.

 
 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 Total Energy 
 

 Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources.

 
 
 Monthly Energy Review 
 

 
 Annual Energy Review 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 Consumption & Efficiency 
 

 Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation.

 
 
 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) 
 

 
 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) 
 

 
 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 U.S. States 
 

 State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.

 
 
 State Energy Data System (SEDS) 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 International 
 

 International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.

 
 
 International Energy Statistics 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 

 Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions.

 
 U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions 

 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016 

 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level 

 
 
 

 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Analysis and Projections 
 

 Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports.

 
 
 Short-Term Energy Outlook 
 

 
 Annual Energy Outlook 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Special Reports 
 

 Special market analysis and/or data requests.

 
 
 EIA-112 Residential Utility Disconnections 
 

 
 SHIP Act 
 

 
 Energy & Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices? 
 

 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 

 International energy analyses.

 
 
 Regional Analysis Briefs 
 

 
 Country Analysis Briefs 
 

 
 World Oil Transit Chokepoints 
 

 
 OPEC Revenue 
 


 
 Global Energy Security Data 
 


 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Glossary 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Data Tools, Apps, & Maps 
 

 Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Open Data 
 

 EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets

 
 

 
 
 
 
 EIA Beta 
 

 Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think!

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Open Source Code 
 

 EIA's open source code, available on GitHub.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 All Reports & Products 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 







 
 

 
 
 
 
 EIA Survey Forms 
 

 Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Email Updates 
 

 Sign up for email subscriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products

 
 

 
 
 
 
 RSS Feeds 
 

 Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New.

 
 

 
 
 
 Follow us. . .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 A-Z Index 
 

 
 A |
 B |
 C |
 D |
 E |
 F |
 G |
 H |
 I |
 J |
 K |
 L |
 M |
 N |
 O |
 P |
 Q |
 R |
 S |
 T |
 U |
 V |
 W |
 XYZ 
 

 
 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Today in Energy 
 

 Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends.

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Energy Explained 
 

 
 
 
 What is Energy? 
 

 
 Units & Calculators 
 

 
 U.S. Energy Facts 
 

 
 Use of Energy 
 

 
 Energy & Environment 
 

 
 Petroleum 
 

 
 Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids 
 

 
 Natural Gas 
 

 
 
 
 Coal 
 

 
 Nuclear 
 

 
 Electricity 
 

 
 Hydrogen 
 

 
 Hydropower 
 

 
 Biofuels 
 

 
 Biomass 
 

 
 Wind 
 

 
 Geothermal 
 

 
 Solar 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 For Teachers 
 

 Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Glossary 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 FAQs 
 

 
 
 
 Coal 
 

 
 Conversion & Equivalents 
 

 
 Oil/Petroleum 
 

 
 Diesel 
 

 
 Electricity 
 

 
 Environment 
 

 
 
 
 Gasoline 
 

 
 General Energy 
 

 
 Natural Gas 
 

 
 Nuclear 
 

 
 Prices 
 

 
 Renewables 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 What's New? 

 
 Quarterly Coal Report—Second Quarter 2026 
 Oct 01, 2026
 Wholesale Electricity Market Data 
 Oct 01, 2026
 Petroleum Marketing Monthly 
 Oct 01, 2026
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Press Room 
 

 
 
 Press Releases 
 

 
 Congressional Testimony 
 

 
 Presentations 
 

 
 Events 
 

 
 
 


 

 

 

 



 
 
 
 

 
 
