URL: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/895126/000110465926108003/tm2625334d2_ex99-1.htm
FETCHED: 2026-10-06

 
 EX-99.1
 3
 tm2625334d2_ex99-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Exhibit 99.1 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 Expand Energy Corporation Announces Pricing
of Senior Notes Offering 

 

 SPRING,
Texas , September 15, 2026 - Expand Energy Corporation (NASDAQ: EXE) (“Expand Energy”) announced today the pricing
of its offering (the “Notes Offering”) of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.650% senior notes due 2031 (the
“Notes”) at a price to the public of 99.889% of their face value. The Notes Offering is expected to close on September
17, 2026, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Expand Energy intends to use the net proceeds from the Notes Offering
for general corporate purposes. 

 

 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC acted as joint book-running managers for the Notes Offering. The Notes Offering is being made pursuant to an effective
shelf registration statement on Form S-3 previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on
November 20, 2024, and only by means of a prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus. Copies of the prospectus supplement
and accompanying base prospectus relating to the Notes Offering may be obtained from the following addresses: 

 

 
 
 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 
 c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions 
 1155 Long Island Avenue 
 Edgewood, New York 11717 
 Telephone: (800) 831-9146 
 E-mail: prospectus@citi.com 
 J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 
 c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions 
 1155 Long Island Avenue 
 Edgewood, New York 11717 
 E-mail: prospectus-eq_fi@jpmchase.com ; postsalemanualrequests@broadridge.com 
 

 

 You may also obtain these documents free of charge
by visiting the Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. 

 

 This press release shall not constitute an
offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of any securities. There shall not be any sale of the
Notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification
under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. 

 

 About Expand Energy 

 

 Expand Energy Corporation (NASDAQ: EXE) is North
America’s largest natural gas producer, powered by dedicated and innovative employees focused on expanding the value of natural
gas by connecting global scale to growing markets. Expand Energy’s returns-driven strategy strives to create sustainable value for
its stakeholders by leveraging its advantaged portfolio, financial strength and operational excellence. Expand Energy is committed to
expanding America’s energy reach to fuel a more affordable, reliable, lower carbon future. 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 Forward-Looking Statements 

 

 This
press release includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements
relating to the anticipated timing of the closing of the Notes Offering and Expand Energy’s intended use of proceeds therefrom,
as well as statements reflecting expectations, intentions, assumptions or beliefs about future events and other statements that do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts. Although Expand Energy’s management believes the expectations reflected in such
forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult
to predict and many of which are beyond Expand Energy’s control. No assurance can be given that such forward-looking statements
will be correct or achieved or that the assumptions are accurate or will not change over time. Particular uncertainties that could cause
Expand Energy’s actual results to be materially different than those expressed in such forward-looking statement include those described
in the prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus relating to the Notes Offering and other risks and uncertainties detailed
in Expand Energy’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2025, Expand Energy’s Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2026 and June 30, 2026, and any other documents that Expand Energy files with the SEC. For a discussion
of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, investors are urged to refer to Expand Energy’s documents filed with the SEC that
are available through Expand Energy’s website at www.expandenergy.com or through EDGAR at www.sec.gov. We caution
you not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this release, which speak only as of the date of the release,
and we undertake no obligation to update this information. We urge you to carefully review and consider the disclosures in this release
and our filings with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risk and factors that may affect our business. 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
