URL: https://d1io3yog0oux5.cloudfront.net/_6ba783156620a2e5f64fce01c59afce8/texaspacific/db/761/6381/description/TPL_Rules_of_Conduct_2026_Annual_Meeting.pdf
CHARS: 6107
TEXAS PACIFIC LAND CORPORATION
RULES GOVERNING CONDUCT
2026 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
We welcome you to the 2026 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Annual Meeting”) of
Texas Pacific Land Corporation (the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”). In the interest of an
orderly Annual Meeting, all stockholders are required to comply with the following rules
governing conduct:
1. The Company’s bylaws describe requirements for meetings of our stockholders,
and we will conduct the Annual Meeting consistent with those requirements. The Chairman of
the board of directors of the Company will preside as the Chair of the Annual Meeting (the
“Chair”) in accordance with the Company’s bylaws. He will conduct the Annual Meeting in his
discretion and in accordance with the organizational documents of the Company, these rules and
applicable law. The only business matters to be conducted at the Annual Meeting are the matters
set forth in the Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was included with the
Company’s proxy statement for the Annual Meeting.
2. Because this is a meeting of our stockholders, only our stockholders are permitted
to ask questions during the Annual Meeting. You need to have held stock as of the close of
business on the record date of September 10, 2026 to vote or submit questions during the Annual
Meeting. If you have voted your shares prior to the start of the Annual Meeting, your vote has
been received by the Company’s inspector of elections and there is no need to vote your shares
during the Annual Meeting unless you wish to revoke your proxy or change your vote.
3. Stockholders are encouraged to arrive sufficiently in advance of the scheduled
commencement of the Annual Meeting to complete registration and any applicable security
procedures. To ensure the orderly conduct of the Annual Meeting and minimize disruptions, the
Company reserves the right to restrict or deny admission to any person arriving after the Annual
Meeting has commenced. Any decision regarding late admission shall be made by the Chair or
his designee.
4. If a stockholder has a question about one of the matters being considered at the
Annual Meeting, such question may be asked during the Annual Meeting. We will answer
questions on any of the specific proposals to be voted on by the stockholders at the Annual
Meeting either during or after the Annual Meeting, as determined by the Company.
5. The views, constructive comments, and criticisms of our stockholders are
welcome, but the purposes of the Annual Meeting will be observed, and we may not address any
questions that are:
(a) irrelevant to the business of the Annual Meeting;
[[page 1]]
(b) related to the conduct of the Company’s ordinary business operations;
(c) in substance repetitious of statements made by other persons;
(d) derogatory references to persons or comments that are otherwise in bad
taste;
(e) personal claims or grievances, or proposals to further a personal interest;
(f) over three minutes;
(g) related to pending or threatened litigation;
(h) related to material non-public information of the Company or other
information that the Company is required or well-advised to keep
confidential; or
(i) otherwise deemed out of order or inappropriate by the Chair in his sole
discretion.
In making any determinations as to whether to address a question at the Annual Meeting,
the Chair may, in his sole discretion, consult with counsel.
6. In the event of any disruption or technical difficulty that interrupts the Annual
Meeting, the Chair may adjourn the Annual Meeting, or take such other action that he determines
is appropriate in light of the circumstances.
7. The use of cameras, sound recording equipment, communication devices or any
other similar equipment to record the Annual Meeting is prohibited without the express written
permission of the Company. The redistribution of meeting materials is also prohibited without
the express written permission of the Company.
8. Conduct that is not in compliance with these rules or that is not appropriate will
not be permitted and may be a basis for expulsion or immediate termination of a stockholder’s
access to the Annual Meeting by the Chair.
* * * * *
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements made during the Annual Meeting may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, that are based on the Company’s beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently
available to, the Company, and therefore involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Generally,
future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may” and the words “believe,”
“anticipate,” “continue,” “intend,” “expect” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements include, but are not limited to, references to strategies, plans, objectives, expectations, intentions,
assumptions, future operations and prospects and other statements that are not historical facts. You should not place
undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that plans, intentions and
expectations reflected in or suggested by any forward-looking statements made herein are reasonable, the Company
2
[[page 2]]
may be unable to achieve such plans, intentions or expectations and actual results, and performance or achievements
may differ materially from those envisaged in the statements made during this Annual Meeting due to a number of
factors including, but not limited to: the initiation or outcome of potential litigation; any changes in general
economic and/or industry specific conditions; and the other risks discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which
they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements, except as
required by applicable law.
3
[[page 3]]