URL: https://d1io3yog0oux5.cloudfront.net/_a885b60c17a9f5878d0cc143047393c1/texaspacific/db/734/6701/annual_report/TPL+2025+Annual+Report.pdf
CHARS: 414740
TEXAS PACIFIC LAND CORPORATION
2025 ANNUAL REPORT
[[page 1]]

[[page 2]]
Letter to Stockholders
Dear Fellow Stockholders,
TPL delivered another excellent year in 2025, setting all-time records for consolidated
revenue, net income, and free cash flow. Despite lower oil prices in 2025 compared to
the prior year, TPL achieved record oil and gas royalty production, water sales volumes,
and produced water volumes. This continues a trend of TPL generating growth even
when the broader commodity price environment has been less supportive. Over the
last three years, TPL has generated a compound annual growth rate of 17% in oil and
gas royalty production volumes, 18% in water sales volumes, and 30% in produced water
royalty volumes.
For the full year 2025, TPL generated consolidated revenues of $798 million, net income
of $481 million, and free cash flow of $498 million. Oil and gas production reached
34.6 thousand barrels of oil equivalent (“BOE”) per day, which represents year-over-
year growth of 29%. Our Water Services and Operations segment delivered water sales
volumes of 763 thousand barrels per day and produced water volumes of 4.3 million
barrels per day.
OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Land and Resource Management
Our Land and Resource Management segment focuses on capturing the economic
value from our expansive royalty and mineral acreage and land ownership. The royalties
and minerals generate a high-margin cash flow stream derived from oil and gas
production in the Permian Basin. Our land ownership enables us to support oil and gas
development by providing customers pipeline and wellbore easements, surface leases,
and materials sales, among other items.
For the full year 2025, total segment revenues were approximately $491 million,
composed of oil and gas royalty revenue of approximately $412 million and surface-
related income of approximately $79 million. Oil and gas royalty revenues were
supported by record oil and gas production, benefiting from a combination of robust
development activity on our royalty acreage and acquisition of high-quality mineral
and royalty assets. This volume growth more than offset lower oil price realizations
driven by a weaker commodity price environment. Surface-related income also grew,
driven primarily by pipeline easements, wellbore easements, and lease bonuses.
Water Services and Operations
Our Water Services and Operations segment provides critical water solutions for
upstream and midstream customers throughout the Permian Basin. TPL’s significant
land ownership and water infrastructure investments give us the ability to capitalize
on sourcing water to operators for development activities. Furthermore, demand for
produced water disposal on and around our surface remains strong as higher oil and
gas production generates a commensurate increase in produced water volumes.
For the full year 2025, our Water Services and Operations segment set new records
with revenues of $307 million and net income of $159 million, with both water sales and
produced water royalties reaching record levels. Water sales were supported by TPL
leveraging its infrastructure size and scale to position itself as one of a limited number
of water providers that can reliably meet the intensifying water demands from modern
well development techniques such as simulfracs and co-completions. Growing Permian
produced water volumes and TPL’s ongoing commercial efforts to execute agreements
with operators for surface and pore space access drove record growth in our produced
water royalties.
CAPITAL ALLOCATION
Growth Opportunities
During 2025, we deployed approximately $540 million of capital into acquisitions and
new growth investments. We acquired approximately 17,300 Permian net royalty acres
for approximately $450 million. Roughly 70% of the acquired acreage is adjacent to or
overlaps drilling spacing units where we already hold an interest, and is largely operated
by blue-chip operators. We also acquired approximately 8,100 surface acres in Martin
County, Texas, expanding our footprint in the core of the Midland Basin. This acreage
contains numerous surface and water-related cash flow streams, and we expect to
drive substantial growth on this asset as we apply our commercial expertise.
We made a $50 million minority investment in Bolt Data & Energy, Inc. (“Bolt”), a data
and energy infrastructure company co-founded and chaired by Eric Schmidt, former
[[page 3]]
CEO of Google. Bolt plans to develop large-scale data center campuses and
supporting infrastructure. In addition to our equity investment, TPL has the
right of first refusal to supply water to Bolt-affiliated projects. Our expansive
land position, access to conventional and renewable energy, and industry-
leading water position will allow TPL to benefit as West Texas emerges as a
dominant hub for compute and power infrastructure. For Bolt, its expertise
and relationships in the technology industry provide a natural synergy to
TPL’s competencies, and we believe our combined efforts can help bring
hyper-scaled data infrastructure and power to West Texas.
We also advanced our produced water desalination initiative as we began
construction of a 10,000 barrel per day test facility in Orla, Texas. The project
could provide an additional solution to growing Permian produced water
volumes. Our Orla pilot facility, which commenced commissioning in 2026,
will allow TPL to evaluate operational efficiencies and economics at scale,
and successful demonstration will be a precursor to larger commercial-
scale produced water desalination. In addition, we are investigating various
opportunities related to data center and/or power generation collocation and
beneficial reuse, which could enhance the economics of produced water
desalination.
Stockholder Returns
During 2025, we paid $148 million in cash dividends and repurchased
$8 million of common stock for a total of $156 million returned to stockholders.
In December, we effected a three-for-one stock split. In February 2026, we
declared a 12.5% increase in the regular quarterly dividend to $0.60 per share.
In October 2025, TPL executed a new $500 million revolving credit facility,
which meaningfully expands our liquidity capacity at attractive credit spreads.
At year end, we still maintained a balance sheet with significant cash and no
debt. TPL’s balance sheet and liquidity profile have never been stronger, and
we retain tremendous flexibility to execute on growth opportunities and to
expand stockholder return of capital.
LOOKING AHEAD
We continue to execute against our strategic operating and growth initiatives
in 2026, and the opportunity set across all of our existing businesses is as
compelling as at any point in our history. The Permian Basin remains a world-
class resource with unmatched remaining inventory compared to the rest of
the US, and TPL has a dominant Permian position across royalties, land, and
water from which we can extract value through active management, organic
investment, and consolidation. Furthermore, the data center and power
generation opportunity in West Texas is immense, and TPL is leveraging its
existing expertise to drive growth and create value for stockholders.
Thank you to our leadership team and employees for their relentless
dedication and pursuit of excellence, and to my fellow board members for
their unwavering support, collaboration, and shared commitment to our
mission throughout the year.
Before closing, we note with great sadness the passing of my fellow board
member, Murray Stahl, in April 2026. Murray served on our board from the
Company’s conversion to a C-corporation in January 2021 until the time
of his passing, and through Horizon Kinetics and its predecessor firms he
was also TPL’s largest stockholder for decades. He was widely respected for
his judgment, dedication, and professionalism, and he was instrumental
in strengthening our governance, advancing our growth strategies, and
advocating on behalf of the Company. On behalf of the board, I extend our
deepest condolences to his family, friends, and colleagues at Horizon Kinetics.
In May 2026, we welcomed Peter Doyle, Co-Founder and Co-Chief Executive
Officer of Horizon Kinetics, to our board, and we look forward to his perspective
and engagement as a director.
Finally, thank you to my fellow stockholders for your confidence in TPL.
Sincerely,
Rhys J. Best
Chairman of the Board
[[page 4]]
Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total return from January(cid:1688)11, 2021 (the date of our Corporate
Reorganization) through December(cid:1688)31, 2025 of our Common Stock; the State Street S&P(cid:1688)500 ETF, which includes TPL; and the
Reference Group. The graph assumes that $100 was invested at the beginning of the period and that all dividends were reinvested
for each of TPL, the S&P(cid:1688)500, and the Reference Group. Capitalized terms used but not defi ned herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to such terms in our 2025 Annual Report furnished herewith.
The Reference Group consists of the companies referenced in Part III, Item 11. “Executive Compensation.”
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
$—
January 11, 2021 December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Texas Pacific Land Corp Reference Group State Street S&P 500 ETF
The information contained in the graph above is furnished and therefore not to be considered “fi led” with the SEC or
“soliciting material” under the Exchange Act and is not incorporated by reference into any document that incorporates this Annual
Report by reference, irrespective of any general incorporation by reference language contained in such document.
[[page 5]]
[ THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK ]
[[page 6]]
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
þ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025
or
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ______ to ______
Commission File Number: 1-39804
Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter:
Texas Pacific Land Corporation
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or IRS Employer Identification No.:
organization:
Delaware 75-0279735
Address of principal executive offices:
2699 Howell Street, Suite 800 Dallas, Texas 75204
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(214) 969-5530
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock New York Stock Exchange
TPL
(par value $.01 per share) NYSE Texas, Inc.
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes þ
No ¨
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨
No þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files). Yes þ No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and
“emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One)
[[page 7]]
Large accelerated filer þ Accelerated filer ¨
Non-accelerated filer ¨ Smaller reporting company ¨
Emerging growth company ¨
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period
for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange
Act. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C.
7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. þ
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the
registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-
based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to
§240.10D-1(b). ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No þ
The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day (June 30,
2025) of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2025) was approximately $20.0 billion.
As of February 9, 2026, there were 68,941,554 shares of the registrant’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
None
[[page 8]]
TEXAS PACIFIC LAND CORPORATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PART I
Item 1. Business 1
Item 1A. Risk Factors 10
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17
Item 1C. Cybersecurity 17
Item 2. Properties 20
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 24
Equity Securities
Item 6. Reserved 24
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 35
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 35
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 36
Item 9B. Other Information 38
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 38
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 39
Item 11. Executive Compensation 48
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 73
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 73
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 75
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76
[[page 9]]
[ THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK ]
[[page 10]]
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”) that are not purely historical are forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including statements regarding management’s
expectations, hopes, intentions or strategies regarding the future. Words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
“could,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “potential,” “should,” “will,” and “would” or similar expressions
or the negative of such terms, when used in this Annual Report or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(the “SEC”), are intended to identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company’s future
operations and prospects, the markets for real estate in the areas in which the Company owns real estate, applicable zoning
regulations, the markets for oil and gas including actions of other oil and gas producers or consortiums worldwide such as the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and Russia (collectively referred to as “OPEC+”), expected
competition, management’s intent, beliefs or current expectations with respect to the Company’s future financial performance
and other matters. All forward-looking statements in this Report are based on information available to us, and speak only, as
of the date this Report is filed with the SEC, and we assume no responsibility to update any such forward-looking statements,
except as required by law. All forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that
could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied
by, these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, the factors
discussed in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”
Item 1. Business.
General
Texas Pacific Land Corporation (which, together with its subsidiaries as the context requires, may be referred to as
“TPL,” the “Company,” “our,” “we,” or “us”) is a Delaware Corporation and one of the largest landowners in the State of Texas
with approximately 882,000 surface acres of land, principally concentrated in the Permian Basin. Additionally, we own a
1/128th nonparticipating perpetual oil and gas royalty interest (“NPRI”) under approximately 85,000 acres of land, a 1/16th
NPRI under approximately 371,000 acres of land, and approximately 33,000 additional net royalty acres (normalized to 1/8th)
(“NRA”), for a collective total of approximately 224,000 NRA, principally concentrated in the Permian Basin.
The Company was originally organized as Texas Pacific Land Trust (the “Trust”) under a Declaration of Trust, dated
February 1, 1888 (the “Declaration of Trust”), to receive and hold title to extensive tracts of land in the State of Texas,
previously the property of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company. The Declaration of Trust provided for the appointment of
trustees (the “Trustees”) to manage the assets of the Trust with all of the powers of an absolute owner. On January 11, 2021,
the Trust completed its reorganization from a business trust, Texas Pacific Land Trust, into Texas Pacific Land Corporation, a
corporation formed and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the “Corporate Reorganization”).
Our surface and royalty ownership provide revenue opportunities throughout the oil and gas development value chain.
While we are not an oil and gas producer, we benefit from various revenue sources throughout the life cycle of a well. During
the initial development phase whereby infrastructure for oil and gas development is constructed, we receive fixed fee payments
for use of our land and revenue for sales of materials (caliche) used in the construction of the infrastructure. During the drilling
and completion phase, we generate revenue by providing sourced water and/or treated produced water as well as fixed fee
payments from the use of our land and revenue related to the sale of sand to operators. During the production phase, we receive
revenue from our oil and gas royalty interests and revenue related to saltwater disposal on our land. In addition, we generate
revenue from pipeline, power line and utility easements, commercial leases and temporary permits principally related to a
variety of land uses, including, but not limited to, midstream infrastructure projects and processing facilities as hydrocarbons
are processed and transported to market. Additionally, as a result of an acquisition in 2024, we receive commercial revenue
related to land leased to a third party that operates a nonhazardous oilfield solids waste disposal site.
Our mission is to pursue a thoughtful, long-term approach towards optimizing and building upon the commercial and
environmental virtues of our extensive lands and resources. We have a long history of responsible management of our legacy
assets, and since 2016, we have expanded our business strategy to generate incremental revenue streams that take advantage of
our vast surface and royalty footprint, such as our investments in the Water Services and Operations business segment. Beyond
our core businesses, we continue to explore new opportunities related to renewable energy, environmental sustainability, and
technology, among others, that can leverage our existing legacy surface and royalty assets. For example, in December 2025, we
invested $50.0 million in a strategic agreement with a data and energy infrastructure company. See further discussion below
1
[[page 11]]
under “Recent Developments.” Our business model emphasizes high cash flow margins and relatively low ongoing capital
expenditure requirements, and we expect new opportunities to generally align with these priorities. We remain focused on
optimizing long-term value creation and profitability, fostering responsible stewardship of our assets, providing quality
customer service, and engaging with and advocating for employee and stakeholder interests.
Recent Developments
Revolving Credit Facility
On October 23, 2025, we entered into a credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and certain
other lenders (collectively the “Lenders”), which provides for a revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) in the aggregate
principal amount of up to $500.0 million. The Credit Facility includes the ability to request potential increases in the
commitments of the Lenders of up to an additional $250.0 million; provided that any such request for an increase must be in a
minimum amount of $50.0 million or, if less, the remaining available capacity for such increases. The Credit Facility and all
borrowings thereunder will mature on October 23, 2029. Borrowings under the Credit Facility will generally bear interest at the
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) plus 2.25% to 2.50% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio. The Credit
Facility is initially unsecured, with a springing security interest in substantially all equity securities of our subsidiaries in the
event our consolidated total leverage ratio exceeds 2.50 to 1.0. The Credit Facility also contains customary financial and other
affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. No draws were made under the Credit Facility during 2025, and the
Credit Facility remained undrawn as of the date of this Annual Report.
Common Stock Split
On December 22, 2025, we effected a three-for-one stock split of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share
(“Common Stock”), and trading began on a stock split adjusted basis on December 23, 2025. Unless the context otherwise
requires, all share and per share information (including information regarding treasury shares, restricted stock awards (“RSAs”),
restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and performance stock units (“PSUs”)) has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.
The par value of Common Stock was not affected by the stock split and remains at $0.01 per share. Accordingly, an amount
equal to the par value of the increased shares resulting from the stock split was reclassified from “Additional paid-in capital” to
“Common Stock” on our consolidated balance sheets.
Acquisition Activity During 2025
We completed the following asset acquisitions during 2025:
• In March 2025, we acquired 177 NRA located primarily in the Midland Basin for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5
million, net of post-closing adjustments, in an all-cash transaction.
• In May 2025, we acquired 787 acres of land in Reeves County, Texas for an aggregate purchase price, inclusive of
closing costs, of $4.5 million in an all-cash transaction.
• In September 2025, we acquired 8,147 acres of land in Martin County, Texas for an aggregate purchase price,
inclusive of closing costs, of $31.4 million in an all-cash transaction.
• In November 2025, we acquired 17,306 NRA located primarily in the Midland Basin in Martin, Howard, Midland, and
other counties for an aggregate purchase price of $450.7 million, net of post-closing adjustments, in an all-cash
transaction.
Investment Activity During 2025
In December 2025, we made a minority investment of $50.0 million in Bolt Data & Energy, Inc. (“Bolt”) pursuant to a
strategic agreement to develop and enable large scale data center campuses and supporting infrastructure across our land. Bolt
is a data energy infrastructure company co-founded by Eric Schmidt, former CEO and Chairman of Google, who also serves as
Bolt’s Chairman. As part of the agreement, Bolt raised $150.0 million of capital inclusive of our $50.0 million investment. In
connection with our investment, we received an equity interest, warrants, and a right of first refusal to supply water to Bolt-
affiliated projects and related infrastructure. Additionally, the terms of the agreement provide an opportunity for the Company
to contribute land to Bolt in exchange for additional Bolt equity subject to mutual agreement by both parties. Bolt is currently
pursuing commercial partnerships and anchor customers to develop large-scale data centers on our land.
2
[[page 12]]
Business Segments
We operate our business in two reportable segments: Land and Resource Management and Water Services and
Operations. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments
enable the alignment of strategies and objectives of the Company and provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of
resources within businesses. See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations” and Note 16, “Business Segment Reporting” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included under
Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Land and Resource Management
Our Land and Resource Management segment encompasses the business of managing our approximately 882,000
surface acres of land and approximately 224,000 NRA of oil and gas royalty interests, principally concentrated in the Permian
Basin. The revenue streams of this segment consist primarily of royalties from oil and gas, revenues from easements,
commercial leases and renewables, and land and material sales.
We are not an oil and gas producer. Rather, our oil and gas revenue is derived from our oil and gas royalty interests.
Thus, in addition to being subject to fluctuations in response to the market prices for oil and gas, our oil and gas royalties are
also subject to decisions made by the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells to which our royalty interests relate as to
investments in and production from those wells. Our oil and gas royalty interests require no capital expenditures or operating
expense burden from us for well development.
Our revenue from easements is primarily generated from easements for pipelines transporting oil, gas and related
hydrocarbons, power line and utility easements, and subsurface wellbore easements. Easements typically have a 30-plus year
term but subsequently renew every 10 years with an additional payment that is subject to consumer price index escalators.
Many of the renewals will reset over the next several years. In addition to easements, we also receive revenues from other
surface-related operations on our land, including but not limited to, commercial leases, well development and material sales.
Commercial lease revenue is derived primarily from processing, storage and compression facilities, and roads. Material sales
include caliche, sand, and other material sales to operators. Caliche is used in the construction of oil and gas-related
infrastructure, and sand is utilized during completion operations. Additionally, as a result of an acquisition in 2024, we receive
commercial revenue related to land leased to a third party that operates a nonhazardous oilfield solids waste disposal site.
In recent years, we have entered into agreements with third parties related to renewables and various “next generation”
opportunities that will potentially utilize TPL’s surface assets. These agreements include the evaluation of data centers, power
generation, grid-connected batteries, and carbon capture and sequestration, among other opportunities. Generally, these
projects are structured with multi-year terms that allow for feasibility and/or commercial suitability and revenue arrangements
that provide royalty, fee, profit sharing, lease and/or rental payments, though contractual terms and timing for commercial
operations will vary by project. Additionally, as discussed above under “Recent Developments,” we recently entered into a
strategic agreement with Bolt to develop and enable large scale data center campuses and supporting infrastructure across our
land.
As a significant landowner, we also generate revenue from land sales. From time to time, we receive offers from third
parties to acquire tracts of our land. Sales demand and related sale prices of particular tracts of land are influenced by many
factors, including general economic conditions, the rate of development in nearby areas and the suitability of the particular tract
for commercial uses.
3
[[page 13]]
Operations
Revenues from the Land and Resource Management segment for the last three years were as follows (dollars presented
in thousands):
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024 2023
% of Total % of Total % of Total
Segment Consolidated Segment Consolidated Segment Consolidated
Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue
Oil and gas royalties $ 411,677 52 % $ 373,331 53 % $ 357,394 57 %
Easements and other
surface-related income 78,230 10 % 63,074 9 % 67,905 11 %
Land sales 819 — % 4,388 1 % 6,806 1 %
Total Revenue – Land and
Resource Management
segment $ 490,726 62 % $ 440,793 63 % $ 432,105 69 %
Oil and Gas Activity
The table below provides financial and operational data by oil and gas royalty stream for the years ended December
31, 2025, 2024, and 2023:
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024 2023(2)
Our share of production volumes (1):
Oil (MBbls) 4,936 4,118 3,701
Natural gas (MMcf) 23,359 17,074 14,528
NGL (MBbls) 3,784 2,841 2,453
Equivalents (MBoe) 12,613 9,804 8,575
Equivalents per day (MBoe/d) 34.6 26.8 23.5
Oil and gas royalties (in thousands):
Oil royalties $ 304,930 $ 298,074 $ 273,304
Natural gas royalties 37,432 18,512 29,915
NGL royalties 69,315 56,745 45,510
Total oil and gas royalties $ 411,677 $ 373,331 $ 348,729
Realized prices:
Oil ($/Bbl) $ 64.69 $ 75.80 $ 77.33
Natural gas ($/Mcf) $ 1.73 $ 1.17 $ 2.23
NGL ($/Bbl) $ 19.81 $ 21.60 $ 20.05
Equivalents ($/Boe) $ 34.18 $ 39.87 $ 42.58
(1) Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry: “Bbl” represents one barrel of 42 U.S. gallons of crude oil, condensate or NGLs. “Boe”
represents barrels of oil equivalent. “NGL” represents natural gas liquid. “MBbls” represents one thousand barrels of crude oil, condensate or
NGLs. “Mcf” represents one thousand cubic feet of natural gas. “MMcf” represents one million cubic feet of natural gas. “MBoe” represents one
thousand Boe. “MBoe/d” represents one thousand Boe per day.
(2) The metrics and dollars provided for the year ended December 31, 2023 exclude the impact of an $8.7 million recovery with an operator with
respect to unpaid oil and gas royalties for older production periods.
See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Segment Results of Operations” for a detailed discussion of our segment-level operating results.
4
[[page 14]]
There are a number of oil and gas wells in which we have royalty interests that have been permitted but are still
awaiting drilling and completion activity. In addition, we have also identified oil and gas wells in which we have a royalty
interest that have been drilled but are not yet completed (“DUC”). These permitted and DUC wells represent potential near-
term candidates for further development by operators towards ultimately being placed into production. As of December 31,
2025, our royalty acreage had an estimated 5.6 net well permits, 9.8 net DUC wells, and 4.0 net completed but not producing
wells (“CUPs”), totaling 19.5 net wells. TPL had 116.1 net producing wells as of December 31, 2025.
Competition
Our Land and Resource Management segment has few direct peers, in that it sells, leases and generally manages land
owned by the Company and, as such, any owner of property located in areas comparable to the Company is a potential
competitor. The Company’s sizable land ownership of approximately 882,000 surface acres and extensive commercial
development is unique, as few neighboring landowners control land positions of similar scale and/or do not possess the
commercial expertise to maximize business opportunities.
Water Services and Operations
Our Water Services and Operations segment encompasses the business of providing full-service water offerings to oil
and gas operators in the Permian Basin through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Texas Pacific Water Resources LLC (“TPWR”).
These full-service water offerings include, but are not limited to, water sourcing, produced-water treatment,
infrastructure development, and disposal solutions. We are committed to sustainable water development. Our significant
surface ownership in the Permian Basin provides TPWR with a unique opportunity to provide multiple full-service water
offerings to operators.
The revenue streams of this segment principally consist of revenue from sales of sourced and treated water as well as
revenue from produced water royalties. Energy businesses use water for their oil and gas projects, including new drilling and
completion operations, while service businesses (i.e., water management service companies) operate water facilities to sell
water to, and dispose of produced water of, energy businesses.
Operations
Revenues from our Water Services and Operations segment for the last three years were as follows (dollars presented
in thousands):
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024 2023
% of Total % of Total % of Total
Segment Consolidated Segment Consolidated Segment Consolidated
Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue
Water sales $ 169,701 21 % $ 150,724 21 % $ 112,203 18 %
Produced water royalties 124,218 15 % 104,123 15 % 84,260 13 %
Easements and other
surface-related income 13,545 2 % 10,183 1 % 3,027 — %
Total Revenue – Water
Services and Operations
segment $ 307,464 38 % $ 265,030 37 % $ 199,490 31 %
5
[[page 15]]
Water Activity
The table below provides financial and operational data by water revenue type for the years ended December 31, 2025,
2024, and 2023:
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024 2023
Water volumes (in MBbls) (1):
Water sales 278,564 269,281 205,552
Produced water royalties 1,566,588 1,257,246 916,067
Water volumes in barrels per day (in MBbls/d) (2):
Water sales 763 736 563
Produced water royalties 4,292 3,435 2,510
Water revenue (in thousands):
Water sales $ 169,701 $ 150,724 $ 112,203
Produced water royalties $ 124,218 $ 104,123 $ 84,260
(1) MBbl = 1 thousand barrels of water.
(2) MBbl/d = 1 thousand barrels of water per day.
See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Segment Results of Operations” for a detailed discussion of our segment-level operating results.
In 2024, we announced our progress towards developing new solutions for produced water in the Permian Basin
through our wholly owned subsidiary, Transmissive Water Services, LLC (“Transmissive”). Over the last few years, we have
been working with a leading industrial technology and manufacturing firm to develop an energy-efficient desalination and
treatment process and associated equipment that can recycle produced water into fresh water with quality standards appropriate
for surface discharge and beneficial reuse. With the Permian Basin generating over 20 million barrels of produced water per
day, we believe this technology would provide an attractive and critical alternative to subsurface injection. We filed and
received a patent application for the desalination and treatment process and have secured exclusive use-rights for the equipment
geared towards oil and gas applications. After successfully testing a pilot program in our research and development lab, we
proceeded with development of a produced water desalination test facility, which we refer to as the Phase 2B facility, with an
initial capacity of 10,000 barrels of produced water per day. Construction of the Phase 2B facility was temporarily paused
during 2025 to allow testing and potential incorporation of additional desalination equipment and is anticipated to be completed
by the end of the first half of 2026. We continue to have commercial discussions with oil and gas upstream operators as we
look to provide critical, technology-driven solutions while also optimizing our economic interests. Cumulatively through
December 31, 2025, we have spent $45.5 million ($33.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2025) on this new energy-
efficient desalination and treatment process and equipment, of which $38.8 million has been capitalized as of December 31,
2025.
Additionally, during 2025, we invested $24.9 million in TPWR projects to enhance our water sourcing assets.
Competition
The market in which TPWR operates is highly competitive and includes numerous companies capable of competing
effectively on a local basis. TPWR competes with landowners, water supply and transfer companies, and companies that
engage in the sale or treatment of produced water. We believe our position as a significant landowner of approximately
882,000 surface acres gives us a distinct advantage over our competitors who must negotiate with existing landowners to source
water and then for the right of way to deliver the water to the end user.
6
[[page 16]]
Major Customers
The chart below depicts our total revenues and revenues from customers representing 10% or more of our 2025
consolidated revenues:
100%
100%
80%
60%
40%
19%
20%
11%
10%
—%
Texas Pacific Land Occidental Petroleum Chevron Corporation ConocoPhillips
Corporation Corporation
Oil and gas royalties Water sales
Produced water royalties Easements and other Surface-related income
Land sales and other operating revenue
While approximately 40% of our 2025 revenue was derived from only three customers, each of these customers are
investment-grade rated and are among the largest companies in the world based on market capitalization. We believe each of
them is a strong and reliable operator. Given their major presence in the Permian Basin and our significant surface lands in the
same area, the high concentration of business with these three customers is expected. Further, the choice of with whom we do
business largely depends on location of mineral royalties and surface rights on or near our assets and consists of a limited
universe of oil and gas companies that operate in the Permian Basin.
Seasonality
While our business is not seasonal in nature, as that term is generally understood, revenue from oil and gas royalties
may fluctuate from period to period based upon market prices for oil and gas and production decisions made by the operators.
Our other revenue streams, which include, but are not limited to, water sales and royalties, easements and other surface related
income and sales of land, may also fluctuate from period to period. In addition, our results are generally dependent on the
decisions and actions of third parties out of our ultimate control. As a consequence, the results of our operations for any
particular period are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year.
Regulations
We are subject to various federal, state and local laws. Management believes that our operations comply in all
material respects with applicable laws and regulations and that the existence and enforcement of such laws and regulations have
no more restrictive effect on our method of operations than on other companies similar to TPL.
We cannot determine the extent to which new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations
may affect our future operations.
7
[[page 17]]
Environmental Considerations
Compliance with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of
materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, have had no material effect upon our
business generally, including the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of the Company. To date, we have not
been called upon to expend any material amount of funds for these purposes.
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”)
Our current ESG disclosure is available at our website at www.TexasPacific.com. Our ESG disclosure has been
prepared to align with the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board, the Global Reporting Initiative, and the Task Force on
Climate Related Disclosures frameworks.
Integrating sustainability and ESG objectives is a priority for our Company. Our ESG strategy reflects its dedication
to meeting tactical business priorities while managing the environmental impacts of its operations, maintaining principles for
social responsibility, and upholding a commitment to strong corporate governance. Our ESG strategy is focused on the
overarching priorities of environmental management, employee health and safety, workforce management and equality,
community and landowner engagement, and strong corporate governance and ethics. We are committed to sustainability and
responsible stewardship across all of our operations and land management activities.
As we do not produce oil or gas from the land from which our royalty revenue stream is derived, we developed our
sustainability goals and partnership opportunities in consultation with the entities operating on our land. On the water solutions
side of our business, we developed a tailored ESG program that addresses the ethical and responsible buildout of water assets
and management of water as a natural resource. Our continued goal is an integrated and iterative approach to sustainable and
responsible resource management.
Our ESG accomplishments include, but are not limited to:
• Increased the electrification of our water assets in an effort to reduce costs and mitigate our overall emission profile by
reducing reliance on diesel generators. Cumulatively through December 31, 2025, we have spent $25.2 million of
capital on electric infrastructure.
• Initiated energy tracking in 2020 to monitor and identify trends in energy consumption and sourcing.
• Prioritized the health and welfare of our workforce.
• Employed practices for the tracking and monitoring of all spills, regardless of whether they are within or outside of
regulatory reporting requirements. We had zero spills of produced water in 2025, 2024, and 2023.
• Partnered with oil & gas operators on our surface estate to collectively discuss and manage ESG risks. Partnership
opportunities included: developing renewable energy infrastructure across our land, developing water infrastructure to
support the reuse and recycling of produced water—a critical response to climate change, partnering to develop new
technologies that support emissions management, and more.
• Instituted a governance framework that includes oversight and stewardship of our ESG strategies. The Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee (the “Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee”) of our Board
reviews our policies and programs concerning corporate social responsibility, including ESG matters, with the support
of the Audit Committee of the Board (the “Audit Committee”) and the Compensation Committee of the Board (the
“Compensation Committee”), where appropriate. The committees provide guidance to the Board and management
with respect to trends and developments regarding environmental, social, governance, and political matters that could
significantly impact the Company.
The disclosure denotes that our ESG strategy, including metrics and targets, is continuously reviewed to determine if
updates or process improvements are needed.
8
[[page 18]]
Human Capital Resources
We believe we have a talented, motivated and dedicated team, and we are committed to supporting the development of
our team members and continuously building on our strong culture. As of December 31, 2025, we had 114 full-time
employees, of which 35 were employees of TPWR.
Our business strategy and ability to serve customers relies on employing talented professionals and attracting, training,
developing and retaining a knowledgeable skilled workforce. We maintain a good working relationship with our employees.
We value our employees and their experience in providing value through land, mineral and water resource management and
water solutions. Maintaining a robust pipeline of talent is crucial to our ongoing success and is a key aspect of succession
planning efforts across the organization. Our leadership and human resources teams are responsible for attracting and retaining
top talent by facilitating an environment where employees feel supported and encouraged in their professional and personal
development. We are committed to enhancing gender, racial and ethnic diversity throughout our organization. We believe that
diversity is an important factor in bringing people together, encouraging shared commitment and fostering new ideas.
We strive to be a great place for our employees to work. Accordingly, we offer industry competitive pay and benefits,
tuition reimbursement and continuing education classes and are committed to maintaining a workplace environment that
promotes employee productivity and satisfaction.
Employee safety is also among our top priorities. Accordingly, we have developed and administer company-wide
policies to ensure a safe and fair workplace free of discrimination or harassment for each team member and compliance with
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) standards, as further discussed in our Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics. This commitment applies to recruiting, hiring, compensation, benefits, training, termination, promotions or any other
terms and conditions of employment. We maintain our strong focus on safety and have taken measures to protect our
employees and maintain safe, reliable operations.
We have a goal of zero occupational injuries, illnesses and incidents in our workplace. To ensure that we protect our
safety culture, we have in place a dedicated Health, Safety, and Environment Management team with substantial combined
years of experience and have in-house authorized trainers for OSHA-required certified training, powered equipment training
and PCE-safe land certificated training.
Available Information on our Website
We make available on our website at www.TexasPacific.com, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act. Such reports are also available at www.sec.gov. The information contained on our website is not part, or incorporated by
reference into, this Annual Report.
9
[[page 19]]
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk. The risks described below, and other risks noted throughout
this Annual Report, including those risks identified in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our stock
could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment in our stock.
Risks Related to Our Business
Our oil and gas royalties are dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate.
The oil and gas royalties that we receive are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas, and decreases in such
prices for oil and gas negatively impact the revenue realized on our oil and gas royalties. Reductions in market prices for oil
and gas could also lead to decreased exploration and development activity by the operators of the properties on which we own
oil and gas royalty interests, which could reduce our revenue potential with respect to such interests. Market prices for oil and
gas are subject to U.S. and global macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions and infrastructure and logistical constraints,
amongst others, and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations for oil and gas have been
particularly volatile in recent years due to supply and demand factors, worldwide energy conservation measures, OPEC and
OPEC+ actions, global conflicts in major oil producing regions, especially in Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and general
economic cycles, among other factors. These events and conditions have, at times, resulted in a reduction of global economic
activity and volatility in the global financial markets. The scale and duration of the impact of these factors remain unknowable
but could lead to a decrease in our revenues and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and
financial condition.
We are not an oil and gas producer. Our revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others.
We are not an oil and gas producer. Our oil and gas royalty revenue is derived primarily from perpetual non-
participating oil and gas royalty interests that we have retained or oil and gas interests that we have acquired. As oil and gas
wells age, their production capacity may decline absent additional investment. However, the owners and operators of the oil
and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and our royalties are dependent upon
decisions made by those owners and operators, among other factors. Accordingly, a significant portion of our revenues is
reliant on the management and actions of third parties, over whom we have no control. Such third parties may not take actions
or make decisions that will be beneficial to us, which could result in adverse effects on our financial results and performance.
Our estimated proved developed producing (“PDP”) reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be
inaccurate. Any inaccuracies in these estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present
value of our reserves.
It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil, gas, and NGL with precision. Oil and gas reserve
engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and gas and assumptions concerning future oil
and gas prices, production levels, ultimate recoveries and operating and development costs. In estimating our PDP reserves, we
and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (“Ryder Scott”), an independent third-party petroleum engineering firm, must make various
assumptions with respect to many matters that may prove to be incorrect, including:
• future oil, gas, and NGL prices;
• unexpected complications from offset well development;
• production rates;
• reservoir pressures, decline rates, drainage areas and reservoir limits;
• interpretation of subsurface conditions including geological and geophysical data;
• potential for water encroachment or mechanical failures;
10
[[page 20]]
• levels and timing of capital expenditures, lease operating expenses, production taxes and income taxes, and availability
of funds for such expenditures; and
• effects of government regulation.
If any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of PDP reserves, the classifications of reserves based
on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly.
Estimates of our proved, developed and producing reserves and related valuations as of December 31, 2025 were
prepared by Ryder Scott, which conducted a well-by-well review of all wells in which we have a mineral or royalty interest for
the period covered by its reserve report using information provided by us. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve
estimates. Some of our reserve estimates were made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable
than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Our reserve estimates could differ materially from those reserve estimates
of operators developing on our acreage. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are
based, as described above, may result in the actual quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered being different from
our reserve estimates.
The loss of key members of our management team or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel
could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success.
The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success depends, in
part, on our experienced management team, including with respect to the business of TPWR. The loss of key members of our
management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot retain our experienced personnel or attract
additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete within our industry could be harmed.
Demand for TPWR’s products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers.
Demand for TPWR’s products and services is substantially dependent on demand and expenditures by our customers
for the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on our
customers’ overall financial position, capital allocation priorities, and views of future oil and gas prices. Declines, as well as
anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in lower capital expenditures,
project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment, or nonpayment, of amounts
that are owed to us, which could in the future, adversely affect our earnings, cash flow and financial condition. The results of
operations for the Water Services and Operations segment have been impacted from time to time by reduced development
pacing and declines in expenditures by our customers in response to varying industry or global circumstances. Our results may
continue to be impacted by producer discretion on development pacing and capital expenditures.
We face the risks of doing business in a new and rapidly evolving market for TPWR and may not be able to successfully
address such risks and achieve acceptable levels of success or profits.
We have encountered and may continue to encounter the challenges, uncertainties and difficulties frequently
experienced in a new and rapidly evolving market with respect to the business of TPWR, including, but not limited to:
• pricing pressure driven by new competition;
• volatile and/or unexpected operating and maintenance costs;
• lack of sufficient customers or loss of significant customers for the business of TPWR;
• increased regulation, including with respect to environmental and geological uses and impacts on industry operations;
and
• uncertainty regarding outsourced third-parties providing water treatment services.
The market in which TPWR operates is highly competitive and includes numerous companies capable of competing
effectively on a local basis. TPWR competes with landowners, water supply and transfer companies, and companies who
engage in the sale or treatment of produced water. Some of our larger diversified competitors have a broad geographic scope
and have benefits of scale, while others focus on specific areas only and may have locally competitive cost efficiencies as a
result.
11
[[page 21]]
Additionally, there may be new companies that enter the water solutions business, or our existing and potential
customers may develop their own water management solutions. Our ability to maintain current revenue and cash flows, and our
ability to expand our operations, could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers.
The impact of government regulation on TPWR could adversely affect our business.
The business of TPWR is subject to applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including laws and regulations
on water use, environmental and safety matters. These laws and regulations may increase the costs and timing of planning,
designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning water wells and sourced water and treatment facilities and impact our
customers’ ability to transport, store and/or dispose of produced water in certain locations. Some state and local governmental
authorities have begun to monitor or restrict the use of water to ensure adequate local water supply. In addition, due to
increased seismicity in the Delaware and Midland Basins, the Texas Railroad Commission recently began implementing
seismic response areas (“SRAs”) limiting the permitted capacity and use of certain saltwater disposal wells (“SWDs”) for the
injection of produced water. For example, in January 2024, the Railroad Commission of Texas indefinitely suspended all deep
oil and gas produced water injections in Culberson and Reeves counties. The implementation of SRAs could limit the volume
of produced water disposed on the Company’s surface within the SRAs or, in certain cases, could direct additional volumes of
produced water to SWDs on the Company’s surface outside of SRAs. These limitations and/or redirections may require TPWR
to adapt its business plans and could affect TPWR’s financial performance. We continue to actively engage with the Texas
Railroad Commission and evaluate the potential effect of SRAs on our produced water royalties.
Our produced water desalination project creates risks related to invested capital, environmental exposure and our
reputation.
Through Transmissive, we are developing a proprietary produced water desalination technology and advancing the
beneficial reuse process. Development of a produced water treatment facility requires substantial capital and may result in total
project costs exceeding initial estimates due to inflation, supply chain constraints, labor and equipment availability, design
changes, regulatory requirements or technical challenges. Delays in permitting, produced water sourcing, waste disposal
arrangements, construction or commissioning could defer or reduce expected cash flows and impair the anticipated return on
our investment. Actual throughput, pricing, operating costs and utilization may also differ from forecasts because they depend
on competing treatment or disposal options, and changes in environmental or water-handling regulations. As a result,
Transmissive may fail to achieve targeted returns or require additional unplanned capital, which could lead to impairments of
invested capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
We are exposed to the risk that discharges of treated water and treatment-related waste, including those made in
compliance with permitted limits, may have unforeseen adverse environmental effects. Material failures to properly treat,
handle or transport produced water or discharge treated water, including leaks, spills or non-compliance with discharge permits
and performance standards, could risk contaminating surface waters, groundwater or navigable waters or damage natural
resources. Such material failures could also trigger enforcement actions, require remediation or corrective measures, lead to
operational restrictions or permit suspension or revocation, harm our reputation or result in third-party claims for personal
injury, property damage and other losses, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.
Negative public opinion or adverse perceptions of Transmissive’s operations or reputation could materially affect our
business, results of operations, or prospects over time. Negative sentiment may arise from unfavorable portrayals of produced
water, water treatment operations or discharge locations by the media, special interest groups, political leaders, stakeholders, or
other parties, including organized opposition to specific projects or the energy industry in general. Potential impacts of such
sentiment include operational delays or interruptions, legal or regulatory challenges, blockades, increased regulatory oversight,
reduced public or governmental support, and the delay, challenge, or revocation of regulatory approvals, permits, or licenses,
each of which may increase costs or cause cost overruns.
Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation. Land sales are subject to many factors that are
beyond our control.
Our land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. The total price obtained, the average price per
acre, and the number of acres sold in any one year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of future land sales. Our
desire to sell and the demand and pricing for any particular tract of our land is influenced by many factors, including but not
limited to: (i) access and location, (ii) the national and local economies, (iii) the rate of oil and gas well development by
operators, (iv) the rate of development in nearby areas, (v) the livestock carrying capacity, and (vi) the condition of the local
12
[[page 22]]
industries, which itself is influenced by a range of conditions. Our ability to sell land can be, therefore, largely dependent on
the actions of adjoining landowners.
A third party has refused to continue to fulfill its obligations under existing arrangements to which the Trust was a party in
connection with the completion of our Corporate Reorganization, and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the
Trust historically received.
The completion of the Corporate Reorganization implicated conditions and covenants contained in certain agreements
to which the Trust was, and now TPL is, a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically
received. For example, the obligation to pay ad valorem taxes with respect to certain of our royalty interests was assumed by a
third party and is now the obligation of the successors in interest to such third party, so long as such royalty interests are held by
the Trustees or their successors in office under the Declaration of Trust. We have received an indication from one such obligor
that it does not intend to continue to make ad valorem tax payments related to historical royalty interests. In order to protect the
historical royalty interests from any potential tax liens for non-payment of ad valorem taxes, we have accrued and/or paid such
ad valorem taxes since January 1, 2022. While we intend to seek reimbursement from the third party following payment of
such taxes, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in getting reimbursed, and accordingly, no loss recovery
receivable has been recorded as of December 31, 2025. Taking on the cost of such payments will have an adverse impact on
our business and results of operations.
Our Credit Facility may limit our operating flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our business.
The Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to
grant liens, incur debt, make investments, effect certain mergers, dispose of assets, make certain payments, pay dividends or
distributions on our capital stock, change the nature of our business, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, enter into
certain burdensome agreements, enter into swap agreements and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, in each case subject
to customary exceptions. We therefore may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the
consent of the required lenders and administrative agent under the Credit Facility or terminate the Credit Facility. Our inability
to engage in such actions could limit our operating flexibility and prohibit us from taking certain actions that might be
beneficial to our business. Additionally, we are required to maintain as of the end of each fiscal quarter a consolidated interest
coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated total leverage ratio of not greater than 3.50 to 1.0. Borrowings
under the Credit Facility are initially unsecured, with a springing senior security interest in substantially all of the equity
securities of our subsidiaries in the event our consolidated total leverage ratio exceeds 2.50 to 1.0. There is no guarantee that
we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to comply with these financial covenants or pay the principal and interest on
any debt we incur under the Credit Facility. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or
equity financing will be available to repay or refinance any such debt. Any inability to make scheduled payments or comply
with the covenants in our Credit Facility could result in the acceleration of the obligations thereunder and could adversely affect
our business.
The events of default under the Credit Facility include, among others, payment defaults, breaches of covenants,
defaults under the related loan documents, material misrepresentations, cross defaults with certain other material indebtedness,
bankruptcy and insolvency events, judgment defaults, certain events related to plans subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, invalidity of the Credit Facility or the related loan documents and change in control
events. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Facility may be entitled to terminate the commitments and
letter of credit extensions, accelerate any outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Facility, require us to post cash collateral
with respect to any letters of credit and exercise any additional rights and remedies under the Credit Facility. If our
indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have
the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all.
We may make minority investments, engage in joint ventures or make other strategic alliances with third parties that subject
us to risks and uncertainties outside of our control.
As part of our business strategy, from time to time, we may make minority investments in the equity securities of
companies, engage in joint ventures or make other strategic alliances with third parties that we do not control. For example, in
December 2025, we made a minority investment of $50.0 million in Bolt pursuant to a strategic agreement to develop and
enable large scale data center campuses and supporting infrastructure across our land. In connection with our investment, we
received an equity interest, warrants, and a right of first refusal to supply water to Bolt-affiliated projects and related
infrastructure. We may contribute land and receive additional equity that may or may not increase in value or be liquid.
Minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the
financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks associated with the minority investment.
13
[[page 23]]
To the extent we hold only a minority equity interest in a company, we may lack affirmative control rights, which may
diminish our ability to influence the company’s affairs in a manner intended to enhance the value of our investment in the
company. Our investment could become impaired if the majority stakeholders or the management of the company take risks or
otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. In addition, we could be subject to reputational harm if the company
in which the investment is made makes business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree. These
circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with management or employees of the company in which the investment
is made, or its other stockholders.
The companies in which we make investments may have indebtedness or equity securities, or may be permitted to
incur indebtedness or to issue equity securities, which rank senior to our investment. We also may make investments in early-
stage companies that depend on venture funding and are not profitable. In the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution,
reorganization or bankruptcy of a company in which an investment is made, holders of debt instruments and securities ranking
senior to our investment would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before distributions could be made in respect of
our investment.
We may also enter into separate commercial arrangements with these companies similar to our strategic agreement
with Bolt, whether before, concurrently with, or after making a minority investment. In certain cases, an underlying
commercial arrangement may be a driving factor behind our investment. Such commercial arrangements may not further our
business strategy as we expected, and we may not realize all the economic benefits expected from the commercial agreement or
realize the expected return on our investments.
Cyber incidents or attacks targeting the systems and infrastructure used by us, our operators, other third parties with whom
we do business or the oil and gas industry in general may adversely impact our operations, and if we are unable to obtain
and maintain adequate protection of our data, our business may be adversely impacted.
We and our operators increasingly rely on information technology systems to operate our respective businesses, and
the oil and gas industry depends on digital technologies in exploration, development, production, and processing activities. Our
technologies, systems and networks, and those of the operators on our properties and our vendors, suppliers and other business
partners, have in certain instances been, and may in the future become, the target of cyberattacks or information security
breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary, personal
and other information, or other disruption of business activities. Even without a direct breach of our systems, cybersecurity
attacks on such third parties could adversely impact our business and reputation. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as
surveillance, may remain undetected for some period of time.
While we utilize various systems, procedures and controls to mitigate exposure to cybersecurity attacks and prevent
cybersecurity incidents, such systems, procedures and controls may be breached as a result of third-party action, employee
error, third-party or employee malfeasance or otherwise. Globally, cybersecurity attacks are increasing in number, and the
threat actors are increasingly organized and well financed, or at times supported by state actors. In addition, geopolitical
tensions or conflicts may create a heightened risk of cybersecurity attacks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized
access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate
preventative or protective measures.
Our cyber liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms,
or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may cover only a portion of losses incurred in investigating or
remediating a cybersecurity incident, if at all, and may not cover all claims made against us. As cybersecurity threats continue
to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to
investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Any actual or perceived cybersecurity incident could adversely
affect our business, financial position or results of operations.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock
The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly.
The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be
beyond our control, including, but not limited to:
• actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business;
14
[[page 24]]
• our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;
• changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate;
• changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;
• reports issued by securities analysts;
• changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;
• the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;
• investor perception of our Company and our industry;
• actual or anticipated fluctuations in commodities prices; and
• domestic and worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions.
We may not continue to pay dividends or to pay dividends at the same rate as previously paid.
The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any cash dividends to our stockholders is within the discretion of
our Board and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating
subsidiaries, covenants associated with our Credit Facility or any future debt service obligations or other contractual
obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and other factors
deemed relevant by the Board. These factors could result in a change in our current dividend policy.
We will evaluate whether to repurchase our outstanding Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing or
amount of share repurchases, if any.
On November 1, 2022, our Board approved a stock repurchase program, which became effective January 1, 2023, to
purchase up to an aggregate of $250.0 million of our outstanding Common Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2025,
the Company repurchased 27,000 outstanding shares of Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $8.4 million, which
repurchased shares were placed in treasury. The Company opportunistically repurchases stock under the stock repurchase
program with funds generated by cash from operations. The stock repurchase program may be suspended from time to time,
modified, extended or discontinued by the Board at any time. Any future repurchase under the stock repurchase program will
be within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including market and business conditions, the trading
price of our Common Stock, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and the nature of other investment
opportunities.
The issuance of additional Common Stock in the future would dilute other stockholders.
Holders of our Common Stock could be diluted because of equity issuances for proposed acquisitions or capital market
transactions or equity awards proposed to be granted to our directors, officers and employees subject to any required vote of
holders of our Common Stock under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated
bylaws (“the Bylaws”). We may issue stock-based awards, including annual awards, new hire awards and periodic retention
awards, as applicable, to our directors, officers and other employees under any employee benefits plans we have adopted or
may adopt, using newly issued shares rather than treasury shares as is currently our practice.
In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our
stockholders, one or more series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative,
participating, optional and special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Board may generally determine in
its sole discretion. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the
value of our Common Stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect members of the
Board or to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could
assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our Common Stock.
State law and anti-takeover provisions could enable our Board to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the
power of our stockholders.
15
[[page 25]]
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended
to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our
Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: (a) the ability of our remaining
directors to fill vacancies on our Board; (b) the ability of our Board to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws; (c) rules regarding how
stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and (d) the right of our Board to
issue preferred stock without stockholder approval.
In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (“DGCL”), which
could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to
limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting
stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger,
consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its
affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock.
We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring
potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal.
These provisions are not intended to make the Company immune from takeovers; however, these provisions apply even if the
offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is
not in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to
remove and replace incumbent directors.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Texas as the sole and exclusive forums for certain types of actions and
proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the Company and our
directors and officers.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the Company otherwise determines, the
Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, any state or federal court residing
within the State of Delaware) or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas in Dallas, Texas (or, if such court
does not have jurisdiction, any district court in Dallas County in the State of Texas) will be the sole and exclusive forums for
any derivative action brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our
current or former directors, officers, employees or stockholders, any action or proceeding asserting a claim against us or any of
our directors, officers, employees or agents arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under any
provision of the DGCL, the laws of the State of Texas, the laws of the State of New York, our amended and restated certificate
of incorporation or our Bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents
governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case, subject to the applicable court having personal jurisdiction over the
indispensable parties named as defendants in such action or proceeding. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation
also provides that unless our Board otherwise determines, the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and
exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the “Securities Act”).
To the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims,
including claims under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, although our stockholders
will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.
The enforceability of similar exclusive forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged
in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with one or more actions or proceedings described above, a court
could rule that one or more parts of the exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation is
inapplicable or unenforceable.
This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such
stockholders find favorable for disputes with the Company or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits
against the Company and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision
inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we
may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.
Risks Related to Our Industry
Our business and financial results could be disrupted by natural or human causes beyond our control.
16
[[page 26]]
Our revenues depend on natural and environmental conditions with respect to operations that result in royalties to us,
or that use our water services. Our business and financial results are therefore subject to disruption from natural or human
causes beyond our control, including physical risks from severe storms, floods, droughts resulting in aquifer declines and other
forms of severe weather, war, accidents, civil unrest, political events, fires, earthquakes, system failures, pipeline disruptions,
environmental hazards such as oil and produced water spills, terrorist acts and epidemic or pandemic diseases, any of which
could result in a material adverse effect on oil and gas production and, therefore, our results of operations.
Our business and financial results are subject to major trends in our industry, such as decarbonization, and may be
adversely affected by future developments that are out of our control.
Much of the value of the land we own and upon which we receive royalties is based on the oil and gas reserves located
there. Our revenues may be negatively affected by changes driven by trends such as decarbonization efforts. Such changes
may relate to the types or sources of energy in demand, such as a shift to renewable sources of power generation (for example,
wind and solar), along with ongoing changes in regulatory, investor, customer and consumer policies and preferences. The
evolution of global energy sources is affected by factors out of our control, such as the pace of technological developments and
related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate
change-related policies. In addition, the possibility of taxes on energy sources, including oil and gas, may affect the demand for
crude oil and gas and the operating costs for third-party operators on our royalty properties.
Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activists.
Our business could be negatively affected as a result of stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant
expense, hinder execution of our business strategy, and impact the trading value of our securities. In the past, we have been the
subject of stockholder activism, and we are subject to the risks associated with any ongoing or future such activism.
Stockholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and our Board,
potentially interfering with our ability to execute our strategic plan. We have incurred, and may in the future be required to
incur, significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist stockholder matters, and the attention of our management may
be diverted by such activism. While we welcome our stockholders’ constructive input, stockholder actions may result in
negative impacts to the Company. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating
results, and the market price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected
by stockholder activism.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
Not Applicable.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity.
We have established policies, standards, processes and practices for assessing, identifying, and managing material
risks from cybersecurity threats. We have devoted substantial financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain
security measures to meet regulatory requirements, and we intend to continue to make significant investments to maintain the
security of our data and cybersecurity infrastructure. Despite these efforts, our policies and procedures may not be properly
followed in every instance and may not always be effective. Our risk factors, which can be found in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk
Factors,” include further detail about the material cybersecurity risks we face. We have had no cybersecurity incidents or other
risks from cybersecurity threats to date that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, us, including
our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition.
Cyber Risk Management and Strategy
Overview
We employ a risk-based approach to cybersecurity which aligns with our corporate strategy, risk management and
governance, and adaptable information technology (“IT”) infrastructure. Our cybersecurity program consists of policies,
procedures, systems, controls and technology designed to help prevent, identify, detect and mitigate cybersecurity risk and is
based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”) Cybersecurity framework.
17
[[page 27]]
Collaboration
We have integrated cybersecurity risk management into our overall risk management framework by (i) maintaining
disaster recovery, business continuity and security incident recovery plans, (ii) conducting annual enterprise and IT risk
assessments, (iii) implementing periodic key risk indicator tracking, and (iv) holding regular cross-departmental meetings to
address cybersecurity risks.
Risk Assessment
Our risk management activities and cybersecurity strategy include IT policies, standards, procedures and systems to
address and mitigate risks for critical system availability, network integrity, information protection, and operational continuity.
We perform vulnerability and threat monitoring mitigation activities on a regular basis and perform a cybersecurity
risk assessment at least annually. Our cybersecurity risk assessment program includes the following assessments and activities:
• ensure program alignment with the NIST Cybersecurity framework;
• prioritize, remediate, and ensure effectiveness of critical applications, infrastructure, and information; and
• continually evaluate emerging threats and improved mitigation methods, including but not limited to, generative and
agentic artificial intelligence and machine learning.
We regularly collaborate with the Company’s internal audit department and third parties with security and
infrastructure expertise for review and evaluation of the Company’s cybersecurity risk program and the associated IT control
environment. We engage third-party service providers to perform annual external and internal penetration testing, disaster
recovery testing, and security incident simulations.
Infrastructure: Network and Physical Security
Our IT infrastructure is secured and continually monitored using a number of tools to effect physical and logical
security. We strictly regulate and limit access to servers and networks. Network access is controlled by the network firewall
and restricted by stringent access control lists. We also employ (i) network and endpoint intrusion prevention and detection
throughout our infrastructure, (ii) systems that monitor our infrastructure and alert our management of potential cybersecurity
issues and vulnerabilities, and (iii) a seasoned process for managing and installing patches for third-party applications.
We have also implemented the following protective and preventative measures:
• identity management and access control safeguards;
• encryption of data in transit and at rest;
• system and network security and monitoring;
• information protection and governance; and
• ongoing systems and equipment maintenance.
Incident Response and Recovery Planning
We have instituted cybersecurity event detection systems, methods, and supporting processes to perform continuous
monitoring, identify and classify events and anomalies, take appropriate actions when necessary, and report incidents to the
appropriate parties. Our response and recovery capabilities are designed to, among other things, contain any impacts, analyze
and mitigate events, track events to resolution, provide effective stakeholder communication, recover and resume operations,
and evaluate and improve systems and methods.
Third-Party Risk Management
We have implemented and continue to maintain our IT policies, standards, procedures, and controls to oversee,
identify and manage cybersecurity risks associated with all third-party service providers. These include, but are not limited to,
18
[[page 28]]
an IT acceptable use policy, a records and information management policy, change control procedures, risk and control registry,
attestation report reviews, and configuration standards.
Education and Awareness
Our policies require each of our employees to complete annual information security training, in addition to other
training requirements. The result is an educated, informed, and prepared workforce, with an awareness of potential
cybersecurity threats, how they may occur, and how to report and escalate such matters. These training efforts are
supplemented with regular corporate-led communications and outreach initiatives to facilitate cybersecurity awareness and
ensure employees remain vigilant and informed about cybersecurity threats and trends.
Governance
Both management and the Board are actively involved in the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. Our
information security program is designed to ensure that management and the Board are adequately informed about, and
provided with the tools necessary to monitor, (i) material risks from cybersecurity threats and (ii) our efforts related to the
prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents.
Role of the Board
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee primary responsibility for overseeing enterprise risk management,
including oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. The Audit Committee periodically reviews TPL’s policies and
practices, including incident response plans, for managing cybersecurity risks to ensure that such policies and practices are
appropriately tailored to our risk framework. Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives quarterly IT and
cybersecurity updates unless there is a notable event that requires immediate communication. These quarterly updates include
cybersecurity risk assessment updates from our Director of Information Technology, including key risk indicators, the steps
management has taken to monitor and control such cybersecurity risk exposure, and continuous improvement efforts. In
addition to the risk management experience of the Audit Committee members, Barbara J. Duganier, a member of the Audit
Committee, holds the CERT Cybersecurity Oversight Certification from Carnegie Mellon University.
Role of Management
Our cybersecurity risk is managed utilizing a multi-tiered approach by our Director of Information Technology. In
addition to the Director of Information Technology, we also engage the services of a third-party chief information security
officer (“CISO”). The qualifications of the Director of Information Technology include over 30 years of IT management,
cybersecurity, and information governance experience. The CISO, who reports to the Director of Information Technology, has
over 20 years of cybersecurity, IT management, and infrastructure consulting experience and is a certified CISO. The Director
of Information Technology is regularly informed about the latest developments in cybersecurity, including potential threats,
vulnerabilities, and innovative risk management techniques. This ongoing knowledge acquisition is crucial for the effective
prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents.
The Director of Information Technology oversees risk management and strategy through (i) an IT operating committee
(the “IT Operating Committee”) made up of the Director of Information Technology, the CISO, and our department heads,
which is responsible for the establishment and review of our IT governance, risk management and compliance, and (ii) an IT
steering committee (the “IT Steering Committee”) made up of our executives, which provides guidance and oversight to
support and achieve our IT objectives, including cybersecurity objectives. Both the IT Operating Committee and the IT
Steering Committee meet on a quarterly basis. The IT Operating Committee reviews monthly reports on cybersecurity incident
prevention, mitigation, detection, and remediation and reviews our plans and policies related to IT processes on an annual basis.
The Director of Information Technology also coordinates with our internal audit department and the Audit Committee to ensure
cybersecurity is represented and addressed within our enterprise risk management strategy.
19
[[page 29]]
Item 2. Properties.
Surface Acreage
Our ownership of the surface estate of approximately 882,000 surface acres is comprised of numerous separate tracts,
principally concentrated in the Permian Basin. There were no material liens or encumbrances on our title to the surface estate
of those tracts as of December 31, 2025. Of our total surface acreage, approximately 800,000 acres were assigned to the
Company through the Declaration of Trust in 1888 when the Trust was formed and no value was assigned to the land at that
time.
The following table shows our surface acreage ownership by county as of December 31, 2025 (1):
Number of
County Surface Acres
Andrews 12,121
Concho 2,592
Crane 3,622
Culberson 270,853
Ector 19,888
El Paso 16,613
Glasscock 27,227
Howard 5,156
Hudspeth 154,247
Jeff Davis 8,293
Lea(2) 640
Loving 63,053
Martin 12,090
Midland 28,365
Mitchell 3,842
Nolan 1,600
Pecos 43,377
Reeves 188,107
Sterling 5,212
Taylor 690
Upton 6,661
Winkler 7,804
Total 882,053
(1) Counties are located in the State of Texas unless otherwise noted.
(2) County is located in the State of New Mexico.
Oil and Gas Royalty Interests
Our oil and gas royalty interests are located solely in the United States in the Permian Basin. Our oil and gas royalty
interests are comprised of royalty interests assigned through the Declaration of Trust (the “Assigned Royalty Interests”) and
royalty interests acquired. Our Assigned Royalty Interests as of December 31, 2025 represent the remaining oil and gas royalty
interests assigned to us through the Declaration of Trust in 1888 as further discussed in Item 1. “Business.” The fair market
value of the Assigned Royalty Interests was not determined in 1888 when the Trust was formed and, therefore, no value is
assigned to these interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Royalty interests acquired represent royalty interests in proved
and unproved oil and gas properties.
20
[[page 30]]
The following table shows NRA in the Assigned Royalty Interests and the royalty interests acquired by county as of
December 31, 2025 (1):
Royalty
Interests
Assigned Royalty Interests Acquired Total
1/128th NPRI 1/16th NPRI
County Number of NRA Number of NRA Number of NRA Number of NRA
Borden — — 33 33
Callahan — 40 — 40
Coke — 591 — 591
Crane 17 2,599 — 2,616
Culberson — 55,756 5,014 60,770
Ector 2,102 5,896 79 8,077
Eddy(2) — — 54 54
Fisher — 160 — 160
Gaines — — 28 28
Glasscock 225 5,555 2,876 8,656
Howard 194 920 4,530 5,644
Hudspeth — 504 — 504
Jeff Davis — 3,778 — 3,778
Lea(2) — — 98 98
Loving 382 24,033 390 24,805
Martin — — 8,364 8,364
Midland 809 6,560 4,319 11,688
Mitchell 110 293 — 403
Nacogdoches — — 4 4
Nolan 155 1,579 — 1,734
Palo Pinto — 400 — 400
Pecos 20 8,448 487 8,955
Presidio — 1,600 — 1,600
Reagan 385 637 1,573 2,595
Reeves 188 58,346 1,897 60,431
Stephens 176 80 — 256
Sterling 40 1,040 — 1,080
Taylor — 483 — 483
Upton 431 4,551 2,451 7,433
Ward — — 1,144 1,144
Winkler 74 1,520 39 1,633
Total 5,308 185,369 33,380 224,057
(1) Counties are located in the State of Texas unless otherwise noted.
(2) County is located in the State of New Mexico.
Summary of Estimated Proved Reserves
We define proved reserves as proved developed producing (“PDP”) reserves. PDP reserves are reserves that can be
expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the cost of the
required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. The Company’s oil and gas properties are located in
the Permian Basin.
21
[[page 31]]
The PDP reserve estimates and their associated future net cash flows were prepared by Ryder Scott as of December 31,
2025. The reserve report covers only PDP reserves and does not include undeveloped minerals or royalties. The oil and natural
gas PDP reserve estimates represent the Company’s net ownership interest in its proved properties and were estimated in
accordance with guidelines established by the SEC. Reserve studies were not prepared for periods prior to December 31, 2024.
Accordingly, the comparative reserve information for those periods was derived from the December 31, 2024 reserve report by
rolling volumes backwards from 2024 to 2022 to reflect historical production. Therefore, no revisions of prior estimates were
recorded for these periods.
The following table presents estimated PDP reserves as of December 31, 2025:
December 31,
2025
Estimated PDP reserves:
Crude Oil and Condensate (MBbls)(1) 24,191
Natural Gas (MMcf)(1) 148,012
Natural Gas Liquids (MBbls)(1) 24,256
Total (Mboe)(1) 73,116
(1) Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry: “MBbls” represents one thousand barrels of crude oil, condensate or NGLs. “MMcf”
represents one million cubic feet of natural gas. “MBoe” represents one thousand Boe.
PDP Reserves Evaluation and Review of Estimated PDP Reserves
The estimated PDP reserves as of December 31, 2025 are based on reserve estimates prepared by Ryder Scott. The internal
and external technical persons responsible for preparing or auditing our PDP reserve estimates meet the requirements with
regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating
and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Ryder Scott is a third-
party engineering firm and does not own an interest in any of our properties and is not employed by us on a contingent basis.
The PDP reserve analysis prepared by Ryder Scott covered 100% of our total PDP reserves for 2025. No undeveloped reserves
were reported. A copy of the summary report prepared by Ryder Scott is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report.
Under SEC rules, PDP reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and
engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible–from a given date forward, from
known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations–prior to the time at
which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of
whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has
defined reasonable certainty for PDP reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All PDP
reserves as of December 31, 2025 were estimated using a deterministic method. The process of estimating the quantities of
recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical
procedures fall into three broad categories or methods: (i) performance-based methods, (ii) volumetric-based methods, and (iii)
analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the
quantities of reserves. In general, our PDP reserves attributable to producing wells were estimated by the performance-based
method decline curve analysis, which utilized extrapolations of available historical production data. In certain cases where
there was inadequate historical performance data to establish a definitive trend and where the use of production performance
data as a basis for the estimates was inappropriate, the PDP reserves were estimated by analogy, or a combination of
performance and analogy methods. The analogy method was used where there were inadequate historical performance data to
establish a definitive trend and where the use of production performance data as a basis for the reserve estimates was considered
to be inappropriate. To estimate economically recoverable PDP reserves and related future net cash flows, we considered many
factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data
which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of
future production rates. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated PDP reserves, the technologies and
economic data used in the estimation of our PDP reserves included production data, downhole completion information,
geologic data, and historical well cost and operating expense data. The process of estimating oil, natural gas and natural gas
liquids reserves is complex and requires significant judgment. As a result, our petroleum engineers and geoscience
professionals have an internal controls process to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate PDP
reserves relating to our assets primarily in the Permian Basin. Our internal technical staff met with Ryder Scott periodically
during the period covered by the reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in our PDP reserve estimation
process. As part of the preparation of the reserve analysis, we provided historical information to Ryder Scott for our properties
such as ownership interest, oil and gas production, gas processing and product recovery assumptions and commodity prices.
22
[[page 32]]
Our petroleum engineers are primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all reserve estimates, reviewing the data
provided and the results for reasonableness, and overseeing communications with our independent reserve engineer. Our
engineering staff have an average of approximately 20 years of industry experience per person. Our technical staff uses
historical information for our properties such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, and commodity prices to
estimate economic lives of our properties. We limited economic forecasts to 30 years.
Ryder Scott prepared an estimate of the PDP reserves of the Company as of December 31, 2025.
The internal control procedures utilized in the preparation of such PDP reserve estimates are intended to ensure reliability
of reserve estimations, and include, but are not limited to the following:
• Review and verification of historical production data, which is based on actual production as reported by our
operators;
• Preparation of interim quarterly reserve estimates by our internal reserve engineers and supervision of the preparation
of annual reserve estimates by the primary external reserve engineers;
• Review by the reserve engineers of all of our reported PDP reserves at the close of each quarter, including the review
of all significant reserve changes;
• Review and verification of historical realized commodity prices and differentials from index prices provided to the
external reserve engineer;
• Review of any differences between internal calculations and external reserves estimates by our management and
internal engineering staff and confirming any differences are not more than the established audit tolerance guideline of
10 percent;
• Review of the PDP reserve estimates by our Audit Committee with our executive team and Ryder Scott on an annual
basis;
• Verification of property ownership by our land department; and
• No employee’s compensation is tied to the amount of reserves booked.
Productive Wells
Productive wells consist of producing wells, wells with at least one month of reported production. As of December 31,
2025, we owned mineral or royalty interests in over 11,346 gross productive wells, which consisted of 8,959 oil wells and 2,387
natural gas wells – over 62 net oil wells and over 48 net natural gas wells.
Our Facilities
We lease office space in Dallas, Texas for our corporate headquarters and in Midland, Texas for TPWR.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
There are no material pending legal proceedings to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
23
[[page 33]]
PART II
OTHER INFORMATION
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.
Market Information
Our Common Stock is traded on the NYSE and NYSE Texas, Inc. under the ticker symbol “TPL.” We had 171
registered holders of our Common Stock as of February 9, 2026. This number is based on the actual number of holders
registered at such date and does not include holders whose shares are held in “street name” by brokers and other nominees.
Dividends
For the year ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, we paid the following regular and special cash dividends per share:
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
Regular Special Regular Special
1st Quarter $ 0.53 $ — $ 0.39 $ —
2nd Quarter 0.53 — 0.39 —
3rd Quarter 0.54 — 0.39 3.33
4th Quarter 0.53 — 0.53 —
Total $ 2.13 $ — $ 1.70 $ 3.33
We have paid a cash dividend each year for the preceding 69 years.
The Board has determined to pay dividends on a quarterly basis in March, June, September, and December of each
year, subject to the discretion of the Board. Such dividends will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, and financial
position, applicable requirements of law, general economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Board. We
are not a party to any agreement that would limit our ability to pay dividends in the future.
Issuer Purchases of Common Stock
We did not repurchase any of our equity securities during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31,
2025.
Item 6. Reserved.
24
[[page 34]]
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (“MD&A”) is
intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Texas Pacific Land Corporation.
MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the
accompanying notes to financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion
and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ
materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited
to, those factors presented in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section
generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to the year ended December
31, 2024. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023, refer to Part
II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.
Overview
TPL was originally organized in 1888 as a business trust to hold title to extensive tracts of land in the State of Texas
that were previously the property of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company. On January 11, 2021, we completed our
Corporate Reorganization from a business trust to a corporation and changed our name from Texas Pacific Land Trust to Texas
Pacific Land Corporation.
Our business activity is generated from our surface and royalty interest ownership, primarily in the Permian Basin.
Our revenues are derived from oil and gas royalties, water sales, produced water royalties, easements and other surface-related
income and land sales. Due to the nature of our operations and concentration of our ownership in one geographic location, our
revenue and net income are subject to substantial fluctuations from quarter to quarter and year to year. In addition to
fluctuations in response to changes in the market price for oil and gas, our financial results are subject to decisions by not only
the owners and operators of oil and gas wells to which our oil and gas royalty interests relate, but also to other owners and
operators in the Permian Basin as it relates to our other revenue streams, principally water sales, produced water royalties,
easements and other surface-related revenue.
Market Conditions
Average West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) oil prices for the year ended December 31, 2025 were down approximately
15% compared to average WTI oil prices during the same period last year. Oil prices continue to be impacted by certain actions
by OPEC+, geopolitics, and evolving global supply and demand trends, among other factors. In addition, ambiguity around
tariffs implemented by and towards the United States has created incremental global economic uncertainty, which, in part,
contributed to relatively weaker oil prices in 2025. Average Henry Hub natural gas prices during 2025 increased approximately
61% compared to average prior year natural gas prices. Global and domestic natural gas markets benefited in 2025 from
improved supply-demand balances, including tailwinds from expanded liquefied natural gas capacity and improved industrial
and power demand, among other factors. Since mid-2022, the Waha Hub located in Pecos County, Texas has at times
experienced significant negative price differentials relative to Henry Hub, located in Erath, Louisiana, due in part to growing
local Permian natural gas production and limited natural gas pipeline takeaway capacity. Midstream infrastructure is currently
being developed by operators to provide additional takeaway capacity, though the impact on future basis differentials will be
dependent on future natural gas production and other factors. Changes in global and domestic macro-economic conditions
could result in additional shifts in oil and gas supply and demand in future periods. Although our revenues are directly and
indirectly impacted by oil and natural gas prices, we believe our royalty interests (which require no capital expenditures or
operating expense burden from us for well development), strong balance sheet, and liquidity position will help us navigate
through potential commodity price volatility.
As the largest oil producing shale basin in the world, the Permian depends on large-scale water solutions related to
well development and produced water disposal. For oil and gas well development, often hundreds of thousands of barrels of
water are required per well completion. To enhance productivity and drilling economics, oil and gas operators have generally
expanded the amount of water per well completion and reduced the time to complete a well. These factors have led to
intensifying demands for completion water delivery and assurance, which generally benefits completion water providers with
larger size and scale. We believe we have a competitive advantage in this market with our significant surface footprint and a
large network of owned and operated water wells, storage ponds, recycling assets, and pipelines that can source and deliver
water to customers throughout the Permian.
25
[[page 35]]
Permian produced water volumes have grown commensurately with overall Permian oil production. Though some
produced water is reused and recycled for completion activities, the majority of Permian produced water is injected into
subsurface pore space via saltwater disposal wells. Saltwater disposal availability varies throughout the Permian depending on
regulations, permitted injected rates, and the availability of pore space and infrastructure. Our extensive land holdings contain
and are adjacent to extensive pore space, and, through various commercial agreements, we allow produced water operators to
transport and dispose of produced water across our surface footprint. Furthermore, our previously mentioned desalination
project could potentially provide an additional solution for produced water by reducing the amount of water required to be
injected subsurface.
Permian Basin Activity
The Permian Basin is one of the oldest and most well-known hydrocarbon-producing areas and currently accounts for
a substantial portion of oil and gas production in the United States, covering approximately 86,000 square miles in 52 counties
across southeastern New Mexico and western Texas. Exploration and production (“E&P”) companies active in the Permian
generally decreased their drilling and development activity in 2025 compared to recent prior year activity levels in response to
lower oil prices. Despite relatively lower activity, Permian production, per the U.S. Energy Information Administration
(“EIA”), averaged approximately 6.5 million barrels of oil per day during 2025.
Due to our ownership concentration in the Permian Basin, our revenues are directly impacted by oil and gas pricing
and drilling activity in the Permian Basin. The metrics below show selected benchmark oil and natural gas prices and
approximate activity levels in the Permian Basin for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024:
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
Oil and Gas Pricing Metrics:(1)
WTI Cushing average price per Bbl $ 65.39 $ 76.63
Henry Hub average price per mmbtu $ 3.52 $ 2.19
Waha Hub natural gas average price per mmbtu $ 0.69 $ 0.14
Activity Metrics specific to the Permian Basin:(1)(2)
Average monthly horizontal permits 581 654
Average monthly horizontal wells drilled 457 504
Average weekly horizontal rig count 257 296
DUCs as of December 31 for each applicable year 3,946 4,536
Total Average U.S. weekly horizontal rig count (2) 498 536
(1) Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry: “WTI Cushing” represents West Texas Intermediate. “Bbl” represents one barrel of 42
U.S. gallons of crude oil, condensate or NGLs. “Mmbtu” represents one million British thermal units, a measurement used for natural gas.
“DUCs” represent drilled but uncompleted wells. DUC classification is based on well data and date stamps provided by Enverus. DUCs is based
on wells that have a drilled/spud date stamp but do not have a completed or first production date stamp. Excludes wells that have been labeled
plugged and abandoned or permit expired and wells drilled/spud more than five years ago.
(2) Permian Basin specific information per Enverus analytics. U.S. weekly horizontal rig counts per Baker Hughes United States Rotary Rig Count for
horizontal rigs. Statistics for similar data are also available from other sources. The comparability between these other sources and the sources
used by the Company may differ.
While average oil prices for the year ended December 31, 2025 were lower compared to the same period in 2024,
Henry Hub and Waha Hub natural gas prices for the year ended December 31, 2025 increased compared to the same period last
year. E&P companies broadly have continued to deploy capital towards drilling and development activities in the Permian
Basin at a measured pace. Although average rig counts during the year ended December 31, 2025 were lower compared to the
same period last year, increased drilling and completion efficiencies have allowed operators, in aggregate, to grow production.
As we are a significant landowner in the Permian Basin and not an oil and gas producer, our revenue is affected by the
development decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own royalty interests and land. Accordingly,
these decisions made by others affect, both directly and indirectly, our oil and gas royalties, produced water royalties, water
sales, and other surface-related income.
26
[[page 36]]
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash flows generated from operations and our Credit Facility. Our
primary liquidity and capital requirements are for acquisitions, capital expenditures related to our Water Services and
Operations segment (the extent and timing of which are under our control), working capital, and general corporate needs.
We continuously review our levels of liquidity and capital resources. If market conditions were to change and our
revenues were to decline significantly or operating costs were to increase significantly, our cash flows and liquidity could be
reduced. Should this occur, we could draw on our Credit Facility or seek alternative sources of funding. As of December 31,
2025, we had no debt, draws on our Credit Facility, and no off-balance sheet arrangements that require us to provide funding,
guarantees, or other forms of financial support.
As we evaluate our current capital structure, capital allocation priorities, business fundamentals, and investment
opportunities, we have set a target cash and cash equivalents balance of approximately $700 million. Above this target, we will
seek to deploy the majority of our free cash flow towards returning capital to our stockholders in the form of special dividends
and/or share repurchases. As of December 31, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $144.8 million that we expect to
utilize, along with cash flow from operations, to provide capital to support our business, to pay regular dividends, subject to the
discretion of our Board, to, subject to market conditions, repurchase shares of our Common Stock, for potential acquisitions and
for general corporate purposes. We believe that cash from operations and our cash and cash equivalents balance together with
our Credit Facility, will be sufficient to meet ongoing capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other cash needs
and allow for opportunistic transactions for at least the next 12 months.
Acquisition and Investment Activity
We completed the following asset acquisitions and investment during 2025:
• In March 2025, we acquired 177 NRA located primarily in the Midland Basin for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5
million, net of post-closing adjustments, in an all-cash transaction.
• In May 2025, we acquired 787 acres of land in Reeves County, Texas for an aggregate purchase price, inclusive of
closing costs, of $4.5 million in an all-cash transaction.
• In September 2025, we acquired 8,147 acres of land in Martin, County Texas for an aggregate purchase price,
inclusive of closing costs, of $31.4 million in an all-cash transaction.
• In November 2025, we acquired 17,306 NRA located primarily in the Midland Basin in Martin, Howard, Midland, and
other counties for an aggregate purchase price of $450.7 million, net of post-closing adjustments, in an all-cash
transaction.
• In December 2025, we made a minority investment of $50.0 million in Bolt pursuant to a strategic agreement to
develop and enable large scale data center campuses and supporting infrastructure across our land.
See Part I, Item 1. “Business — Recent Developments” for further discussion of our acquisition and investment
activity during 2025.
Revolving Credit Facility
On October 23, 2025, we entered into a Credit Facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million, and
the ability to request potential increases in the commitments of the lenders of up to an additional $250.0 million; provided that
any such request for an increase must be in a minimum amount of $50.0 million or, if less, the amount remaining available for
all such increases. The Credit Facility and all borrowings thereunder will mature on October 23, 2029.
The borrowings under the Credit Facility will bear interest at a rate per annum (i) for each SOFR loan, equal to term
SOFR for such interest period plus (x) 2.25% if our consolidated total leverage ratio is less than or equal to 2.0 to 1.0 or (y)
2.50% if our consolidated total leverage ratio is greater than 2.0 to 1.0 or (ii) for each base rate loan, equal to the base rate plus
(x) 1.25% if our consolidated total leverage ratio is less than or equal to 2.0 to 1.0 or (y) 1.50% if our consolidated total
27
[[page 37]]
leverage ratio is greater than 2.0 to 1.0. The base rate for any day is a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the
federal funds rate plus 0.50% of 1%, (b) the rate of interest per annum publicly announced by the Administrative Agent as its
prime rate, and (c) term SOFR for a one-month tenor in effect on such day plus 1.00%. We are also required to pay customary
letter of credit fees.
We intend to draw on the facility primarily for capital expenditures, ongoing working capital, acquisitions and general
corporate purposes. Borrowings under the Credit Facility will be unsecured with a springing security interest in substantially
all equity securities of our subsidiaries in the event our consolidated total leverage ratio exceeds 2.50 to 1.0. The Credit Facility
also contains customary financial and other affirmative and negative covenants.
The events of default under the Credit Facility include, among others, payment defaults, breaches of covenants,
defaults under the related loan documents, material misrepresentations, cross defaults with certain other material indebtedness,
bankruptcy and insolvency events, judgment defaults, certain events related to plans subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, invalidity of the Credit Facility or the related loan documents and change in control
events. The occurrence of an event of default could result in the termination of commitments and letter of credit extensions, the
acceleration of our obligations under the Credit Facility, the requirement to post cash collateral with respect to letters of credit
and the exercise of the Lenders of all rights and remedies under the Credit Facility.
No draws had been made under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2025, and the Credit Facility remained undrawn
as of the date of this Annual Report.
Return of Capital to Stockholders
During the year ended December 31, 2025, we paid total dividends to our stockholders of $147.8 million, consisting of
cumulative regular cash dividends of $2.13 per share. In addition, we repurchased $8.4 million of our Common Stock during
the year ended December 31, 2025.
Development of New Solutions for Produced Water and Capital Expenditures
In 2024, we announced our progress towards developing a patented energy-efficient desalination and treatment process
and associated equipment that can recycle produced water into fresh water with quality standards appropriate for surface
discharge and beneficial reuse. With the Permian Basin generating over 20 million barrels of produced water per day, this
technology provides an attractive and critical alternative to subsurface injection. We have begun construction of our test
facility, which will have an initial capacity of 10,000 barrels of water per day, with an estimated service date in the first half of
2026. Cumulatively through December 31, 2025, we have spent $45.5 million ($33.6 million during the year ended December
31, 2025) on this new energy-efficient desalination and treatment process and equipment, of which $38.8 million had been
capitalized as of December 31, 2025.
Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2025, we invested approximately $24.9 million to enhance our
water sourcing assets.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
For the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $545.9 million and
$490.7 million, respectively. Our cash flow provided by operating activities is primarily from oil, gas and produced water
royalties, water and land sales, easements, and other surface-related income. Cash flow used in operations generally consists of
operating expenses associated with our revenue streams, general and administrative expenses and income taxes.
The increase in cash flows provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to the
same period of 2024 was primarily driven by an increase in operating income, principally related to increased oil and gas
production volumes and water sales volumes, and changes in working capital requirements during 2025 as compared to 2024.
Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities
For the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $595.8 million and $471.7
million, respectively. Our cash flows used in investing activities are primarily related to royalty acquisitions, investments and
purchases of fixed assets primarily related to our Water Services and Operations segment. Our acquisitions may include royalty
interests, land and other similar tangible and intangible assets.
28
[[page 38]]
For further information regarding acquisitions and investment activity during the year ended December 31, 2025, see
“Acquisition and Investment Activity” above. Purchases of fixed assets for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 were
$59.5 million and $29.7 million, respectively.
Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities
For the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $176.0 million and $378.1
million, respectively. Our cash flows used in financing activities principally consist of activities that return capital to our
stockholders such as payments of dividends and repurchases of our Common Stock, and activity related to our Credit Facility.
During the year ended December 31, 2025, we paid total dividends of $147.8 million, consisting of cumulative regular
cash dividends of $2.13 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we paid total dividends of $347.3 million
consisting of cumulative regular cash dividends of $1.70 per share and a special dividend of $3.33 per share. During the years
ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, employees surrendered $14.8 million and $1.6 million in shares, respectively, to the
Company to settle tax withholdings related to stock vesting. We repurchased $8.4 million and $29.2 million of our Common
Stock during the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Debt issuance cost in connection with the Credit
Facility was $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2025. We had no draws or repayments on the Credit Facility during
the year ended December 31, 2025.
Results of Operations
The following table shows our consolidated results of operations and our results of operations by reportable segment
for Land and Resource Management (“LRM”) and Water Service and Operations (“WSO”) for the years ended December 31,
2025 and 2024 (in thousands):
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
LRM WSO Consolidated LRM WSO Consolidated
Revenues:
Oil and gas royalties $ 411,677 $ — $ 411,677 $ 373,331 $ — $ 373,331
Water sales — 169,701 169,701 — 150,724 150,724
Produced water royalties — 124,218 124,218 — 104,123 104,123
Easements and other surface-related income 78,230 13,545 91,775 63,074 10,183 73,257
Land sales 819 — 819 4,388 — 4,388
Total revenues 490,726 307,464 798,190 440,793 265,030 705,823
Expenses:
Salaries and related employee expenses 29,184 28,741 57,925 27,493 26,128 53,621
Water service-related expenses — 53,528 53,528 — 46,124 46,124
General and administrative expenses 14,358 9,422 23,780 25,531 8,952 34,483
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 44,555 17,978 62,533 10,968 14,194 25,162
Ad valorem and other taxes 8,218 45 8,263 7,257 38 7,295
Total operating expenses 96,315 109,714 206,029 71,249 95,436 166,685
Operating income 394,411 197,750 592,161 369,544 169,594 539,138
Interest expense (552) (138) (690) — — —
Other income, net 14,926 3,932 18,858 31,707 7,976 39,683
Income before income taxes 408,785 201,544 610,329 401,251 177,570 578,821
Income tax expense 86,370 42,583 128,953 86,350 38,511 124,861
Net income $ 322,415 $ 158,961 $ 481,376 $ 314,901 $ 139,059 $ 453,960
Interest income by segment is included in other income, net in the table above.
29
[[page 39]]
Consolidated Results of Operations
Year Ended December 31, 2025 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2024
Total revenues were $798.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $705.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2024. Total operating expenses were $206.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to
$166.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Net income was $481.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2025
compared to $454.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Individual revenue and expense line items are discussed
below under “Segment Results of Operations.”
Segment Results of Operations
We operate our business in two reportable segments: Land and Resource Management and Water Services and
Operations. We eliminate any inter-segment revenues and expenses, if any, upon consolidation.
We evaluate the performance of our operating segments separately to monitor the different factors affecting financial
results. The reportable segments presented are consistent with our reportable segments discussed in Note 16, “Business
Segment Reporting” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.” We monitor our reporting segments based upon revenue and net income calculated in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Our oil and gas royalty revenue, and, in turn, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2025 have
been impacted by lower average commodity prices compared to 2024. However, our oil and gas royalty revenues increased for
the year ended December 31, 2025 due to increased royalty production. Additionally, revenues derived from water sales and
produced water royalties for the year ended December 31, 2025 were also positively impacted by our active management of our
surface and royalty interests in recent years.
Year Ended December 31, 2025 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2024
Land and Resource Management
Oil and gas royalties. Oil and gas royalty revenue was $411.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2025
compared to $373.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, an increase of 10.3%. Our share of production volumes
increased to 34.6 thousand Boe per day for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to 26.8 thousand Boe per day for
2024. The average realized prices decreased to $34.18 per Boe for the year ended December 31, 2025 from $39.87 per Boe for
2024, a decrease of 14.3%.
30
[[page 40]]
The table below provides financial and operational data by oil and gas royalty stream for the years ended December
31, 2025 and 2024:
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
Our share of production volumes (1):
Oil (MBbls) 4,936 4,118
Natural gas (MMcf) 23,359 17,074
NGL (MBbls) 3,784 2,841
Equivalents (MBoe) 12,613 9,804
Equivalents per day (MBoe/d) 34.6 26.8
Oil and gas royalties (in thousands):
Oil royalties $ 304,930 $ 298,074
Natural gas royalties 37,432 18,512
NGL royalties 69,315 56,745
Total oil and gas royalties $ 411,677 $ 373,331
Realized prices:
Oil ($/Bbl) $ 64.69 $ 75.80
Natural gas ($/Mcf) $ 1.73 $ 1.17
NGL ($/Bbl) $ 19.81 $ 21.60
Equivalents ($/Boe) $ 34.18 $ 39.87
(1) Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry: “Bbl” represents one barrel of 42 U.S. gallons of crude oil, condensate or NGLs. “Boe”
represents barrels of oil equivalent. “NGL” represents natural gas liquid. “MBbls” represents one thousand barrels of crude oil, condensate or
NGLs. “Mcf” represents one thousand cubic feet of natural gas. “MMcf” represents one million cubic feet of natural gas. “MBoe” represents one
thousand Boe. “MBoe/d” represents one thousand Boe per day.
Easements and other surface-related income. Easements and other surface-related income was $78.2 million for the
year ended December 31, 2025, an increase of 24.0% compared to $63.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024.
Easements and other surface-related income includes revenue related to the use and crossing of our land for oil and gas
exploration and production, renewable energy, and agricultural operations. The increase in easements and other surface-related
income was principally related to increases of $10.0 million in pipeline easements, $3.8 million in wellbore easements and $2.5
million in lease bonuses on acquired royalty interests for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to the same period of
2024. The amount of income derived from pipeline easements is a function of the term of the easement, the size of the
easement, and the number of easements entered into for any given period. Easements and other surface-related income is
dependent on development decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own land and is, therefore,
unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period. See “Permian Basin Activity” above for additional discussion
of development activity in the Permian Basin during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Land sales. Land sales were $0.8 million and $4.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024,
respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2025, we sold 17 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of $0.8 million. For
the year ended December 31, 2024, we sold 439 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of approximately $4.4 million.
Salaries and related employee expenses. Salaries and related employee expenses, which include not only salaries,
equity and non-equity incentive compensation, but also employee benefits and contract labor expense, were $29.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $27.5 million for the same period of 2024. The increase in salaries and related
employee expenses was principally related to market compensation adjustments that take effect annually at the start of a given
year.
31
[[page 41]]
General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses were $14.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2025 compared to $25.5 million for the same period of 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in
legal and professional fees of $11.9 million over the same period of 2024.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization was $44.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2025 compared to $11.0 million for the same period of 2024. The increase was principally due to
depletion expense associated with royalty interests acquired during the second half of both 2025 and 2024.
Other income, net. Other income, net was $14.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $31.7
million for the same period of 2024. Lower cash balances and investment yields during the year ended December 31, 2025
compared to the same period of 2024 resulted in a decrease in interest income. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we
recorded a curtailment and settlement gain of $3.3 million related to our pension plan. Additionally, during the year ended
December 31, 2024, we received $1.9 million of proceeds from a settlement with a title company regarding a defect in title to a
property acquired in a previous year.
Water Services and Operations
Water sales. Water sales revenue increased $19.0 million to $169.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2025
compared to $150.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The growth in water sales was principally due to increases
of 8.8% in water sales pricing and 3.4% in volumes for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2024.
Produced water royalties. Produced water royalties are royalties received from the transfer or disposal of produced
water on our land. Produced water royalties are contractual and not paid as a matter of right. We do not operate any saltwater
disposal wells. Produced water royalties were $124.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $104.1
million in 2024. This increase was principally due to a 24.6% increase in produced water volumes for the year ended
December 31, 2025 compared to 2024.
The table below provides financial and operational data by water revenue type for the years ended December 31, 2025
and 2024:
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
Water volumes (in MBbls) (1):
Water sales 278,564 269,281
Produced water royalties 1,566,588 1,257,246
Water volumes in barrels per day (in MBbls/d) (2):
Water sales 763 736
Produced water royalties 4,292 3,435
Water revenue (in thousands):
Water sales $ 169,701 $ 150,724
Produced water royalties $ 124,218 $ 104,123
(1) MBbl = 1 thousand barrels of water.
(2) MBbl/d = 1 thousand barrels of water per day.
Easements and other surface-related income. Easements and other surface-related income was $13.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 2025, an increase of $3.4 million compared to $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2024.
The increase in easements and other surface-related income primarily related to an increase in temporary permits for sourced
water lines for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to 2024.
Salaries and related employee expenses. Salaries and related employee expenses, which include not only salaries,
equity and non-equity incentive compensation, but also employee benefits and contract labor expense, were $28.7 million for
the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $26.1 million for the same period of 2024. The increase in salaries and related
32
[[page 42]]
employee expenses is principally related to increased contract labor costs associated with development of an in-house water
management application and market compensation adjustments that take effect annually at the start of the year.
Water service-related expenses. Water service-related expenses increased $7.4 million to $53.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2025 compared to 2024. Certain types of water service-related expenses, including, but not limited to,
treatment, transfer, water purchases, repairs and maintenance, equipment rental, and fuel costs vary from period to period as our
customers’ needs and requirements change. Right of way and other expenses also vary from period to period depending on the
location of customer delivery. The increase in water service-related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2025 was
principally related to increased water sales volumes compared to the same period of 2024. Research and development expenses
related to development of a new energy-efficient method of produced water desalination and treatment were $2.8 million and
$2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For further discussion of this new treatment
method, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Development of New Solutions for Produced Water and Capital
Expenditures” above.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization was $18.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 2025 compared to $14.2 million for the comparable period of 2024. The increase was principally due to
depreciation expense related to new water service-related assets placed in service.
Other income, net. Other income, net was $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $8.0
million for the same period of 2024. Lower cash balances and investment yields during the year ended December 31, 2025
compared to the same period of 2024 resulted in a decrease in interest income. Additionally, during the year ended December
31, 2024, we recorded a curtailment and settlement gain of $1.3 million related to our pension plan.
Income tax expense. Income tax expense was $42.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to $38.5
million for the same period of 2024. The increase in income tax expense was directly attributable to the increase in operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to the same period of 2024.
Non-GAAP Performance Measures
In addition to amounts presented in accordance with GAAP, we also present certain supplemental non-GAAP
performance measurements. These measurements are not to be considered more relevant or accurate than the measurements
presented in accordance with GAAP. In compliance with the requirements of the SEC, our non-GAAP measurements are
reconciled to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP performance measure. For all non-GAAP measurements, neither
the SEC nor any other regulatory body has passed judgment on these non-GAAP measurements.
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow
EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measurement of earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation, depletion and
amortization. The purpose of presenting EBITDA is to highlight earnings without finance, taxes, and depreciation, depletion
and amortization expense, and its use is limited to specialized analysis.
The purpose of presenting Adjusted EBITDA is to highlight earnings without non-cash activity such as share-based
compensation and other non-recurring or unusual items, if applicable. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a metric used by the
Compensation Committee to evaluate our performance in determining the short-term and long-term incentive compensation of
our executive officers on an annual basis. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA plus employee share-based
compensation less pension curtailment and settlement gain. The pension curtailment and settlement gain are related to a buyout
by a third party of defined benefit obligations under our pension plan and the subsequent freezing of our pension plan, both of
which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2024. We have excluded the pension curtailment and settlement gain from the
calculation of Adjusted EBITDA as such gain is a non-recurring item and is not related to our core business.
The purpose of presenting free cash flow is to provide investors a metric to measure the funds available for investing
in future acquisitions and returning capital to our stockholders through dividends and share repurchases after current income tax
expense and purchases of fixed assets. Additionally, free cash flow is a metric used by the Compensation Committee to
evaluate our performance in determining the short-term and long-term incentive compensation of our executive officers. To
calculate free cash flow, net income is adjusted by adding back income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization
and employee share-based compensation, less the cash outflows of current income tax expenses, purchases of fixed assets and
pension curtailment and settlement gain.
33
[[page 43]]
We have presented EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow because we believe that these metrics are useful
supplements to net income in analyzing our operating performance, ability to fund future acquisitions, ability to return capital to
our stockholders and explaining how our Named Executive Officers (as defined below) are compensated. Our definitions of
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow may differ from computations of similarly titled measures of other companies.
The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended
December 31, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands):
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
Net income $ 481,376 $ 453,960
Add:
Interest expense 690 —
Income tax expense 128,953 124,861
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 62,533 25,162
EBITDA 673,552 603,983
Add (deduct):
Employee share-based compensation 13,817 11,364
Pension curtailment and settlement gain — (4,616)
Adjusted EBITDA $ 687,369 $ 610,731
The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to free cash flow for the years ended December 31, 2025
and 2024 (in thousands):
Years Ended December 31,
2025 2024
Net income $ 481,376 $ 453,960
Add (deduct):
Income tax expense 128,953 124,861
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 62,533 25,162
Employee share-based compensation 13,817 11,364
Pension curtailment and settlement gain — (4,616)
Current income tax expense (122,398) (120,257)
Purchase of fixed assets (59,531) (29,696)
(Increase) decrease in accounts payable related to purchases of fixed assets (6,417) 273
Free cash flow $ 498,333 $ 461,051
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have not entered into off-balance sheet arrangements that require us to provide funding, guarantees or any other
form of financial support.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. It is our opinion that
we fully disclose our significant accounting policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Consistent with our
disclosure policies, we include the following discussion related to what we believe to be our most critical accounting policies
that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgment and estimates.
34
[[page 44]]
Accrual of Oil and Gas Royalties
We accrue oil and gas royalties. An accrual is necessary due to the time lag between the removal of crude oil and gas
products from the respective mineral reserve locations and generation of the actual payment by operators. The oil and gas
royalty accrual is based upon historical production volumes, estimates of the timing of future payments and recent market prices
for oil and gas.
Oil and Gas Reserves
We account for our acquired oil and gas royalty interests using the successful-efforts method. Under this method,
costs to acquire oil and gas royalty interests are capitalized. Acquisition costs associated with non-producing oil and gas
royalty interests are recorded as unproved properties until the results of leasing and drilling activities performed by third-party
exploration and production operators provide sufficient information to determine whether such interests contain proved
reserves. When unproved properties are determined to have proved developed producing reserves (“PDP”), the related
capitalized costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. The Company only reports PDP reserves as we do not control
the timing or development of drilling activities.
The estimation of PDP oil and gas reserves involves significant judgment by independent petroleum engineers.
Reserve estimates rely on geological and engineering analysis, production data, the development and operating plans of third-
party operators on our acreage, and assumptions regarding commodity prices and economic conditions. Because we calculate
depletion of proved oil and gas royalty interests on a unit-of-production basis, changes in reserve estimates influence the rate at
which capitalized costs are depleted and the timing of transfers from unproved to proved properties.
We group oil and gas royalty interests for depletion using a reasonable aggregation of properties with similar
geological or stratigraphic characteristics. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually, or more frequently when new
information becomes available. Revisions to these estimates whether due to operator development activity, production
performance, technical analysis, or changes in economic assumptions result in prospective adjustments to depletion and may
impact the pattern in which capitalized costs are recognized over time.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For further information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.”
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Our financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents (primarily consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills and
commercial paper), accounts payable and other liabilities and the carrying amounts of these instruments approximate fair value
due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
The information required by this Item 8 is included in our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto
commencing on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
Not applicable.
35
[[page 45]]
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act, referred to herein as “Disclosure Controls”) as of December 31, 2025. The controls evaluation
was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that
our Disclosure Controls were effective as of December 31, 2025.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013). Our internal control
over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Our management assessed the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2025. Based on this assessment, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2025.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has audited our internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2025. Deloitte & Touche LLP’s opinion appears on the following page.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes during the quarter ended December 31, 2025 in our internal control over financial
reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
36
[[page 46]]
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the stockholders and the Board of Directors of Texas Pacific Land Corporation
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Texas Pacific Land Corporation and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2025, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2025, based on
criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2025, of the Company and our
report dated February 18, 2026, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s
Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and
are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Dallas, Texas
February 18, 2026
37
[[page 47]]
Item 9B. Other Information.
None.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections.
Not applicable.
38
[[page 48]]
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
Directors
Rhys J. Best, 79, serves as non-executive Chair of the Board (the “Chair”) and has been a member of the Board since
April 15, 2022. Mr. Best currently serves on the board of directors of Arcosa Inc. (NYSE: ACA) (since 2018), where he serves
as the non-executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Best previously served on the board of directors of Cabot Oil and Gas Corp.
(from 2008 to 2021, including serving as lead director in 2021), his term ending after the company merged with Cimarex
Energy in 2021 to form Coterra Energy (NYSE: CTRA). Mr. Best also previously served on the board of directors of
Commercial Metals Company (NYSE: CMC) (from 2010 to 2022), Crosstex Energy, LP, an integrated, multi-commodity
midstream enterprise (NASDAQ: XTEX) (from 2004 to 2014, including serving as chairman of the board from 2009 to 2014),
MRC Global, Inc., a pipe, valve and fitting distribution business (NYSE: MRC) (from 2008 to 2022, including serving as
chairman of the board from 2016 to 2022), Trinity Industries, Inc. (NYSE: TRN) (from 2005 to 2018), and Austin Industries, an
employee-owned construction company (from 2007 to 2018, including serving as chairman of the board from 2013 to 2018).
Mr. Best is the former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lone Star Technologies, Inc., an energy services and
supply company, a role he retired from in 2007 after the successful merger with United States Steel Company (NYSE: X). In
2014, Mr. Best was recognized as Director of the Year by the National Association of Corporate Directors. Mr. Best’s
qualifications to serve as a director include his extensive business experience, including as a senior executive at leading
companies in the oil and gas industry, and his public company board and corporate governance experience.
General Donald G. Cook, USAF (Ret.) 79, has been a member of the Board since January 11, 2021. General Cook
previously served on the board of directors of Crane Co. (NYSE: CR) (from 2005 to 2022), USAA Federal Savings Bank (from
2007 to 2018), U.S. Security Associates Inc., a Goldman Sachs portfolio company (from 2011 to 2018), and Hawker Beechcraft
Inc., another Goldman Sachs portfolio company (from 2007 to 2014). General Cook served on the board of directors of
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad for almost five years until it was sold to Berkshire Hathaway in 2010 in a transaction
valued at $44 billion. He is a former senior consultant for Lockheed Martin Corporation. General Cook also serves as a senior
advisor to Portage Point Partners and served as a senior advisor to Alvest, a private French aviation firm, from 2022 to 2023. In
addition to his extensive corporate governance experience, General Cook was the former Chairman of the San Antonio advisory
board of the NACD Texas TriCities Chapter, a group recognized as the authority on leading boardroom practices. General
Cook had numerous command and high-level staff assignments during his 36-year career with the U.S. Air Force and retired as
a four-star General. He commanded a flying training wing and two space wings, the 20th Air Force (the nation’s nuclear
Intercontinental Ballistic Missile force) and was interim Commander of Air Combat Command during the September 11
attacks. General Cook served as the Chief of the Senate Liaison Office and on the staff of the House Armed Services
Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. Prior to his retirement from the Air Force in August 2005, General Cook’s
culminating assignment was Commander, Air Education and Training Command at Randolph Air Force Base in Texas, where
he was responsible for executing the $8 billion annual budget to recruit, train and educate Air Force personnel, safely
implementing the 500,000-hour annual flying hour program and providing for the leadership, welfare, and oversight of 90,000
military and civilian personnel in the command. He was twice awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for exceptional
leadership. General Cook’s qualifications to serve as a director include his extensive experience on multiple public company
boards and with corporate governance and executive compensation, as well as his senior leadership experience resulting from
his tenure of command in the U.S. Air Force.
General Cook serves on the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee.
Barbara J. Duganier, 67, has been a member of the Board since January 11, 2021. Ms. Duganier currently serves on
the board of directors of CenterPoint Energy (NYSE: CNP), an electric transmission and distribution, natural gas distribution
and energy services company, where she chairs the audit committee and serves on the safety and operations committee, and
Arcadis NV (Euronext: ARCADIS) where she serves on the sustainability committee and the audit and risk committee. Ms.
Duganier also serves on the board of directors of two private companies: McDermott International, Ltd. (since 2020), a fully
integrated provider of engineering and construction solutions to the energy industry; and Pattern Energy Group LP (since 2021),
a private renewable energy company focused on wind, solar, transmission and storage. Ms. Duganier previously served on the
board of directors of the general partner of Buckeye Partners, L.P. (NYSE: BPL), a midstream oil and gas master limited
partnership, where she chaired the audit committee until the company’s sale in November 2019; of Noble Energy (NASDAQ:
NBL), an exploration and production company, until the company’s sale in October 2020; of West Monroe Partners, a
management and technology consulting firm, where she was the lead independent director until the sale of the company in
November 2021; and of MRC Global Inc. (NYSE: MRC) (2015-2024), an industrial distributor of pipes, valves and other
39
[[page 49]]
related products and services to the energy industry, where, during her term, she chaired the ESG and enterprise risk committee
and audit committee. From 2004 to 2013, Ms. Duganier was a Managing Director at Accenture, a multinational professional
services company that provides services in strategy, consulting, digital technology, and operations. She held various leadership
and management positions in Accenture’s outsourcing business, including Global Chief Strategy Officer and Global Growth
and Offering Development Lead. A year prior to joining Accenture, she served as an independent consultant to Duke Energy
North America. From 1979 to 2002, Ms. Duganier, who is a licensed certified public accountant in the State of Texas, worked
at Arthur Andersen LLP, where she served as an auditor and financial consultant, as well as in various leadership and
management roles, including Global Chief Financial Officer of Andersen Worldwide. Ms. Duganier is the former chairperson
of the National Association of Corporate Directors Texas TriCities (NACD TTC) board of directors. Ms. Duganier holds the
NACD Director Certification, is an NACD Leadership Fellow, and holds the CERT Cybersecurity Oversight Certification from
Carnegie Mellon University. Ms. Duganier’s extensive executive experience overseeing large organizations, her diverse public
company board experience (including the energy industry), and her training and experience as a certified public accountant
make her well-qualified to serve on the Board.
Ms. Duganier serves on and is the chair of the Compensation Committee and serves on the Audit Committee and the
Strategic Acquisitions Committee.
Donna E. Epps, 61, Ms. Epps has been a member of the Board since January 11, 2021. Ms. Epps currently serves on
the board of directors of Saia, Inc. (NASDAQ: SAIA) (since 2019), where she serves on the audit committee and the
nominating and governance committee, and on the board of directors of Texas Roadhouse, Inc. (NASDAQ: TXRH), where she
serves as chair of the audit committee, and as a member of the nominating and governance committee. Ms. Epps was with
Deloitte LLP, a multinational professional services network, for over 30 years. Ms. Epps served as an attest Partner of Deloitte
LLP from 1998 through 2003 and as a Risk and Financial Advisory Partner of Deloitte LLP from 2004 until her retirement in
2017. During her time at Deloitte LLP, Ms. Epps helped companies develop and implement proactive enterprise risk and
compliance programs, focusing on value protection and creation, and provided attest services and financial advisory services in
governance, risk and compliance matters to private and public companies across multiple industries. Ms. Epps is currently a
licensed certified public accountant in the State of Texas and a member of the North Texas Chapter of the National Association
of Corporate Directors Board. Ms. Epps has served as chair of the Girl Scouts of Northeast Texas Board since April 2021. Ms.
Epps’s significant audit, governance, risk, and compliance experience as a provider of attest, financial advisory and other
consulting services to private and public companies across multiple industries makes her well-qualified to serve on the Board.
Ms. Epps serves on and is the chair of the Audit Committee and serves on the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee.
Tyler Glover, 41, has been a member of the Board and served as TPL’s President and Chief Executive Officer since
January 11, 2021. Mr. Glover served as Chief Executive Officer, Co-General Agent and Secretary of the Trust from November
2016 to January 11, 2021. Mr. Glover also currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of TPWR, a wholly
owned subsidiary of TPL, in which capacity he has acted since its formation in June 2017. Mr. Glover previously served as
Assistant General Agent of the Trust from December 2014 to November 2016, and has over 17 years of energy services and
land management experience. Mr. Glover’s qualifications to serve as a director include his extensive energy industry and land
management expertise and his deep knowledge of TPL gained through his experience as an officer at the Company, including at
the Trust.
Karl F. Kurz, 64, has been a member of the Board since April 15, 2022. Mr. Kurz is currently a non-executive
chairman of the board of directors at American Water Works Co., Inc. (NYSE: AWK) and a member of the board of directors
at Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE: DVN) where he serves on the compensation committee and governance, environmental
& public policy committee and chairs the reserves committee. Mr. Kurz previously served on the board of directors of
SemGroup Corporation (NYSE: SEMG), Western Gas Partners LP (NYSE: WES), WPX Energy Inc. (NYSE: WPX) and
Global Geophysical Services Inc. (NYSE: GGS). Mr. Kurz has served on multiple for profit and non-profit boards. Mr. Kurz
also has extensive private equity experience that includes serving as an operating advisor at Ares Capital and a partner at CCMP
Capital Advisors, where he focused on investments in the oil and gas upstream and midstream sectors. He spent nine years at
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, where he held roles as Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President of Northern America
Operations and Vice President of Midstream and Marketing. Mr. Kurz’s qualifications to serve as a director include his
extensive business experience, including as an accomplished senior oil and gas industry executive, and his public company
board experience in the utility, energy and infrastructure space.
Mr. Kurz serves on and is the chair of the Strategic Acquisitions Committee and serves on the Compensation
Committee.
40
[[page 50]]
Robert Roosa, 55, has been a member of the Board since November 10, 2023. Mr. Roosa is a Partner in Brigham
Royalties, and has served as its Chief Executive Officer since January 2023. Mr. Roosa previously served as President of
Brigham Minerals, Inc. (NYSE: MNRL) (“Brigham”) from its inception in November 2012 and as its Chief Executive Officer
from July 2017 until its acquisition by Sitio Royalties Corp. in December 2022. Mr. Roosa also served as a director of Brigham
from May 2018 until 2022. Mr. Roosa served as the President of Anthem Ventures, LLC, a family office, between January
2012 and January 2017. Mr. Roosa held various roles, including Director of Finance and Investor Relations, while at Brigham
Exploration Company from 2006 until its sale to Statoil ASA in December 2011. From 2000 to 2006, Mr. Roosa held a series
of positions at Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE: XOM), an oil and gas company, in the Corporate Treasurer’s Department.
Prior to 2000, Mr. Roosa worked for Cooper Industries, an electrical products manufacturing company, in its Corporate
Controllers and Audit Groups and with the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP in its audit function. Mr. Roosa graduated
from Southern Methodist University with a Master of Business Administration and from the University of Texas at Austin with
a Bachelor of Business Administration. Mr. Roosa brings extensive knowledge of the mineral royalty acquisitions industry and
executive experience to the Board.
Mr. Roosa serves on the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Strategic Acquisitions Committee.
Murray Stahl, 72, has been a member of the Board since January 11, 2021. Mr. Stahl is the Chief Executive Officer,
Chairman of the Board and Chief Investment Strategist of Horizon Kinetics Holding Corporation (OTC: HKHC), parent
company to Horizon Kinetics Asset Management LLC, which he co-founded. He has over 30 years of investing experience and
is responsible for overseeing Horizon Kinetics’ proprietary research and chairs the firm’s investment committee, which is
responsible for portfolio management decisions across the entire firm. Horizon Kinetics’ investment portfolio includes a 22.2%
voting position in LandBridge Company LLC (NYSE: LB) as of September 30, 2025. Mr. Stahl is also the Co-Portfolio
Manager for a number of registered investment companies, private funds, and institutional separate accounts. Mr. Stahl is the
Chief Executive Officer of FRMO Corp. (OTC: FRMO) (since 2001). He is also President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-
Portfolio Manager of RENN Fund, Inc. (NYSE: RCG) (since 2017). He is a director of Miami International Holdings, Inc.
(NYSE: MIAX), including several of its subsidiary companies and MSRH, LLC. He was a member of the board of directors of
Winland Electronics, Inc. (from 2015 to 2020) and IL&FS Securities Services Limited (from 2008 to 2020). Prior to co-
founding Horizon Kinetics, Mr. Stahl spent 16 years at Bankers Trust Company (from 1978 to 1994) as a senior portfolio
manager and research analyst. As a senior fund manager, he was responsible for investing the Utility Mutual Fund, along with
three of the bank’s Common Trust Funds: The Special Opportunity Fund, The Utility Fund and The Tangible Assets Fund. He
was also a member of the Equity Strategy Group and the Investment Strategy Group, which established asset allocation
guidelines for the Private Bank. Mr. Stahl’s qualifications to serve as a director include his over 30 years of investment
experience, including in the energy and minerals space.
Mr. Stahl serves on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Strategic Acquisitions Committee.
Marguerite Woung-Chapman, 60, has been a member of the Board since November 10, 2023. Ms. Woung-
Chapman serves as a director of Summit Midstream Corporation (NYSE: SMC), a value-driven corporation focused on
developing, owning and operating midstream energy infrastructure assets located in unconventional resource basins, primarily
shale formations, in the continental United States. She currently serves as chair of their nominating, governance and
sustainability committee and as a member of their compensation committee. In December 2025, she announced her retirement
from the SMC board of directors, effective March 15, 2026. Ms. Woung-Chapman serves on the board of directors of Chord
Energy Corporation (NASDAQ: CHRD), a scaled unconventional U.S. oil producer with a premier Williston Basin acreage
position, and serves on the compensation and human resources committee, and as chair of the nominating and governance
committee. She was previously a member of the board directors of Oasis Petroleum, Inc. and chair of the board of directors and
President of the Council of the Girl Scouts of San Jacinto Council. Ms. Woung-Chapman began her career as a corporate
attorney with El Paso Corporation (including its predecessors) and during her tenure from 1991 until 2012, served as Vice
President, Legal Shared Services, Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, among other positions. From 2012 to
2017, Ms. Woung-Chapman served in various capacities at EP Energy Corporation, a private company that subsequently
became an NYSE-listed independent oil and gas exploration and production company, including, among others, Senior Vice
President, Land Administration, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. In 2018, Ms. Woung-Chapman served as Senior
Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Energy XXI Gulf Coast, Inc., an independent exploration and
production company that was engaged in the development, exploitation and acquisition of oil and natural gas properties in the
U.S. Gulf Coast region until its acquisition by Cox Oil. Ms. Woung-Chapman holds a Bachelor of Science in Linguistics from
Georgetown University and a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center. Ms. Woung-Chapman’s qualifications to
serve as director include her valuable expertise in all aspects of management and strategic direction of publicly traded energy
companies with a unique combination of experience in corporate governance, regulatory, compliance, corporate and asset
transactions, legal and business administration.
41
[[page 51]]
Ms. Woung-Chapman serves on and is the chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and serves
on the Audit Committee.
Our directors bring to the Board a wide range of skills, qualifications, experience, perspectives and diverse
characteristics that enhance the Board’s ability to carry out its oversight on behalf of our stockholders. The following table sets
forth a summary of the qualifications and experiences of each director, which we believe are relevant to our business. Because
this is a summary, it does not include all of the skills, experiences and qualifications that each director offers.
Woung-
Qualifications and Experience Best Cook Duganier Epps Glover Kurz Roosa Stahl Chapman
Public Company Chief Executive Officer or l l l l l
Chief Operating Officer Experience
Financial Oversight/Accounting l l l l l
Senior executive level experience in financial
accounting and reporting, auditing, corporate financing
and/or internal controls or experience in the financial
services industry
Industry Experience l l l l l l l
Experience as an executive or director in, or in other
leadership positions working with the oil and gas
industry and knowledge of the risks related to the
industry
Public Policy/Regulatory l l l l l
Experience in or a strong understanding of the
regulatory issues facing the oil and gas industry and
public policy on a local, state and national level
HES Experience l l l l l l l
Experience with direct control or accountability for
health, environmental, safety and social responsibility
management
Risk Management l l l l l l l l l
Executive experience evaluating significant risks and
providing effective oversight of risk management
processes, including cyber security risk and financial
risk
Independence l l l l l l l l
Satisfies the independence requirements of the NYSE
and SEC
Public Company Board Experience l l l l l l l l l
Including corporate governance experience
Gender: Female Male
3 6
Demographics:
African American or Black
Native American
Asian
Hispanic or Latino
Caucasian 2 6
Two or More Races or Ethnicities 1
Executive Officers
Tyler Glover, 41, serves as TPL’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Biographical information for Mr. Glover is
included above.
Chris Steddum, 45, has served as TPL’s Chief Financial Officer since June 1, 2021. Prior to that, Mr. Steddum
served as Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations of TPL and also served as Vice President, Finance and Investor
Relations of the Trust. Prior to joining the Trust in 2019, Mr. Steddum spent 10 years working in oil and gas investment
banking, most recently as a Director at Stifel Financial Corporation from 2016 to 2019, and prior to that served as a Director at
GMP Securities from 2014 to 2016.
42
[[page 52]]
Micheal W. Dobbs, 53, has served as TPL’s Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since January 11,
2021. Mr. Dobbs also served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Trust from August 2020 until January 11,
2021. Prior to joining the Trust, Mr. Dobbs was an equity partner at Kelley Drye & Warren LLP and managing partner of the
Houston, Texas office.
Significant Employees
Robert A. Crain, 47, serves as Executive Vice President of TPWR, in which capacity he has served since its
formation in June 2017. From 2015 to 2017, Mr. Crain was Water Resources Manager with EOG Resources where he led the
development of EOG’s water resource development efforts across multiple basins including the Permian and Eagle Ford.
During his career, he has successfully developed multiple large-scale water sourcing, distribution and treatment systems across
multiple platforms and industries.
Stephanie Buffington, 59, serves as TPL’s Chief Accounting Officer, in which capacity she has served since June 1,
2021. From September 2020 through May 2021, Ms. Buffington served as Vice President of Financial Reporting and from
December 2017 through September 2021 served as Director of Financial Reporting. Prior to joining the Company, Ms.
Buffington most recently served as Vice President of Financial Reporting at Monogram Residential Trust, Inc., a publicly
traded REIT, from 2014 to 2017. Ms. Buffington has over 25 years of public company experience and began her career at
KPMG. She is a licensed Certified Public Accountant in the State of Texas.
Matters Relating to Our Governance
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
The Board has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all members of the Board, executive
officers and employees. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the Company’s corporate website
at www.TexasPacific.com. We will make any legally required disclosures regarding amendments to, or waivers of, provisions
of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on our corporate website.
Communication with Directors
The Board is committed to meaningful engagement with stockholders and other interested persons and welcomes input
and suggestions. Information regarding how stockholders can contact the Chair or non-management members of the Board is
set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are posted on the Company’s corporate website,
www.TexasPacific.com. Stockholders and other interested persons who wish to contact the Board may do so by submitting any
communications to the Company by mail at 2699 Howell Street, Suite 800, Dallas, Texas 75204, Attention: Investor Relations,
with an instruction to forward the communication to a particular director or the Board as a whole. Our Board has created a
number of ways for stockholders and other stakeholders to provide input and hear from management, including:
• Attending an annual meeting of stockholders and submitting questions to be addressed during the meeting;
• Attending quarterly earnings calls, investor conferences, and other similar opportunities;
• Sending an email to our Investor Relations department at IR@texaspacific.com;
• Mailing a letter to us at 2699 Howell Street, Suite 800, Dallas, Texas 75204, Attention: Investor Relations; and
• Requesting a stockholder engagement meeting via one of the means outlined here.
Our Investor Relations team, in consultation with the General Counsel, will not forward any communication that it
determines in good faith to be frivolous, unduly hostile, threatening, illegal or similarly unsuitable. The General Counsel
maintains a list of each communication that was not forwarded because it was so determined to be unsuitable. Such list is
delivered to the Board at its quarterly meetings. In addition, each communication that was not forwarded because it was
determined to be unsuitable is retained in the Company’s files and made available at the request of any member of the Board to
whom such communication was addressed.
43
[[page 53]]
Board Leadership Structure
Our Board is led by the Chair. Mr. Best serves as the Chair and is an independent director. Our Bylaws and Corporate
Governance Guidelines each provide that the Chair of the Board may also hold the position of Chief Executive Officer. At this
time, the Board believes that separation of the Chair and Chief Executive Officer positions is appropriate and in the best
interests of the Company and its stockholders. The Board believes that such separation provides independent leadership for the
Board, helps ensure critical and independent thinking with respect to the Company’s strategy and performance and allows our
Chief Executive Officer to focus on the Company’s day-to-day business operations. Our Chief Executive Officer also serves as
a member of the Board as the management representative. The Company believes this is important to make information and
insight directly available to the directors in their deliberations. This structure gives the Company an appropriate, well-
functioning balance between non-management and management directors that combines experience, accountability, and
effective risk oversight.
The duties of the Chair include, among other things:
• Chairing Board meetings and meetings of stockholders;
• Establishing the agenda for each Board meeting;
• Leading executive sessions of the Board;
• Having authority to call Board meetings;
• Approving meeting schedules for the Board and information distributed to the Board;
• Consulting with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee with regard to the membership and
performance evaluations of the Board and committee members; and
• Performing such other duties and responsibilities as may be requested by the Board.
In the event the Chair does not qualify as independent, our Corporate Governance Guidelines require the independent
directors to select from among themselves a lead independent director. The duties of a lead independent director are set forth in
our Corporate Governance Guidelines and include chairing Board meetings in the absence of the Chair, convening and leading
executive sessions of the Board, serving as a liaison between the Chair and the independent directors, being available for
consultation and director communication with major stockholders as directed by the Board, and performing such other duties
and responsibilities as requested by the Board.
Risk Oversight
The Company believes that risk oversight is the responsibility of the Board as a whole and not solely of any one of its
committees. The Board recognizes that all companies face a variety of risks, including strategic risk, reputational risk,
environmental risk and operational risk. The Board periodically reviews the processes established by management to identify
and manage risks and communicates with management about these processes. The Board encourages, and management
promotes, a corporate culture that incorporates risk management into our corporate strategy and day-to-day business operations,
including with respect to the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints or other expressions of concern received from
employees of the Company or other persons. The Board also continuously assesses and analyzes, with the input of
management, the most likely areas of future risk to which we may be vulnerable.
At the Board committee level, the Audit Committee regularly discusses policies with respect to risk assessment and
risk management, the Company’s major litigation and financial risk exposures, compliance, cybersecurity, information
technology and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. The Compensation Committee
oversees risks arising from the Company’s compensation and employee benefits plans, policies and programs for its employees.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, with assistance from the Audit Committee and the Compensation
Committee, oversees our ESG program and monitors related risks. The Board and the various committee chairs address any
issues identified in such discussions and reviews with management as they arise, and monitor actions, procedures or processes
implemented in response.
44
[[page 54]]
Our General Counsel serves as our chief compliance officer, and periodically reviews the effectiveness of the
Company’s compliance programs and responds to, and monitors the status and response to, compliance issues that may arise
from time to time. The General Counsel reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
Audit Committee Procedures; Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions
The Audit Committee meets separately and periodically with the Company’s independent auditor, the Company’s
Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Internal Audit to assess certain matters, including the status of the independent audit
process, management and the independent auditor’s assessments of the Company’s financial reporting and internal controls and
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and management’s views as to the competence, performance and
independence of the independent auditor. The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function, including its structure,
personnel, budget, and annual internal audit plans. In addition, the Audit Committee, as a whole, reviews and meets to discuss
the annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial statements with management and the independent auditor. The
Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board each year as to whether the annual audited financial statements should
be included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Information about the procedures for approval of related person transactions is available below in Part III, Item 13.
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — Transactions with Related Persons.”
Qualifications and Nominations of Directors
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter provides that the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee screen, recruit and interview individuals that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
believes are qualified to become members of the Board, consistent with criteria approved by the Board from time to time, and to
recommend to the Board the (a) director nominees to be selected by the Board to stand for election or re-election at the annual
meeting of stockholders and (b) director candidates to be appointed by the Board to fill vacancies and newly created
directorships. The Board and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee determine the minimum qualifications that a
director nominee should possess on a case by case basis and typically evaluate candidates based on factors including, but not
limited to, a general understanding of finance, corporate governance and strategy, senior leadership experience, public company
board experience, an understanding of the Company’s business and industry, diversity of background, perspectives and
experiences, character, whether the candidate would satisfy the independence standards of the NYSE Listed Company Manual
and the other skills identified in the matrix included in Part III, Item 10, “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance — Directors” above. The Board and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee aim to identify a
diverse group of candidates and believe that no single criterion such as gender or minority status is determinative in obtaining
diversity on the Board.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee reviews periodically the size of the Board and oversees an
annual self-evaluation of the Board and its committees. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee may also
consider such other factors as it may deem to be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. Whenever the
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee concludes, based on the reviews or considerations described above or due to
a vacancy, that a new nominee to the Board is required or advisable, it will consider recommendations from directors,
management, stockholders and, if it deems appropriate, consultants retained for that purpose. In such circumstances, it will
evaluate individuals recommended by stockholders in the same manner as nominees recommended from other sources.
Stockholders who wish to nominate an individual for election as a director directly, without going through the
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, must comply with the procedures in the Bylaws. The Bylaws are provided
on the Company’s corporate website at www.TexasPacific.com.
Our Board has adopted a “majority vote policy.” Under this policy any nominee for director in an uncontested election
who does not receive a majority of the votes cast and is an incumbent director is required to promptly tender his or her
resignation, subject to acceptance by the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will make a
recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation or whether other action should be taken.
The Board will then act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee’s recommendation, and publicly disclose its decision regarding the tendered resignation within ninety (90) days
from the date of the certification of the election results. A director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the
recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee nor the decision of the Board with respect to his or
her resignation.
45
[[page 55]]
Insider Trading Policy; Anti-Hedging Policy
We have an Insider Trading Policy that sets forth terms, conditions, timing, limitations, and prohibitions with respect
to trading in the Company’s securities. The Insider Trading Policy prohibits all employees, executive officers, directors, agents,
consultants and contractors from trading in the Company’s securities while in possession of material nonpublic information.
Such persons are also generally prohibited from hedging, including engaging in publicly-traded options, puts, calls, or other
derivative instruments relating to the Company’s securities, or selling the Company’s securities “short.” The Insider Trading
Policy also requires that such persons obtain pre-approval from the Company’s General Counsel for all pledges, and the deposit
in margin accounts, of the Company’s securities and the securities of any other company designated by the Company’s General
Counsel. The Insider Trading Policy also restricts directors, officers subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, and certain
other specifically designated employees from trading in the Company’s securities during certain periods and only after they
have obtained pre-clearance for trades in the Company’s securities from the Company’s General Counsel (or, in the case of the
General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer). While the Company is not subject to the Insider Trading Policy, it does not trade
in its securities when it is in possession of material nonpublic information other than pursuant to previously adopted Rule
10b5-1 trading arrangements.
Clawback Policy
The Company has adopted a Clawback Policy in accordance with Section 10D of the Exchange Act and Rule 10D-1
promulgated thereunder (collectively, “Section 10D”). In the event the Company is required to prepare an accounting
restatement of its financial statements due to the Company’s material noncompliance with any financial reporting requirement
under the securities laws, including any required accounting restatement to correct an error in previously issued financial
statements that is material to the previously issued financial statements, or that would result in a material misstatement if the
error were corrected in the current period or left uncorrected in the current period, the Clawback Policy requires that covered
executives must reimburse the Company, or forfeit, any excess incentive compensation received by such covered executive
during the three completed fiscal years immediately preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare the
restatement. Executives covered by the Clawback Policy are current and former executive officers, as determined by the Board
in accordance with Section 10D and the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Incentive compensation subject to the Clawback
Policy includes any cash or equity compensation that is granted, earned or vested based wholly or in part on the attainment of a
financial reporting measure as defined in Section 10D. The amount subject to recovery is the excess of the incentive
compensation received based on the erroneous data over the incentive compensation that would have been received had it been
based on the restated results.
Board of Directors
The Board currently consists of nine (9) directors, eight (8) of whom - Mr. Best, Gen. Cook, Ms. Duganier, Ms. Epps,
Mr. Kurz, Mr. Roosa, Mr. Stahl and Ms. Woung-Chapman - are considered “independent” under the rules of the SEC and the
NYSE. No director may be deemed independent unless the Board determines that he or she has no material relationship with
TPL. Mr. Best serves as the Chair. In light of Mr. Best’s extensive experience in the energy industry and service on public
company boards, the Board believes that he is well-positioned to serve as Chair.
The Board meets at least quarterly and the independent directors serving on the Board meet in executive session (i.e.,
without the presence of any non-independent directors and management) immediately following regularly scheduled Board
meetings. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025 (the “Last Fiscal Year”), the Board met eight (8) times and acted by
written consent in lieu of holding a meeting five (5) times. All of the directors attended at least 75% of the total number of
meetings held by the Board and of the committees on which they served during the Last Fiscal Year. While the Company does
not have a policy requiring director attendance at annual meetings of stockholders, each director is expected to attend the
Company’s annual meetings of stockholders. Each member of the Board attended our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders.
The Board has four standing committees, consisting of a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, an Audit
Committee, a Compensation Committee, and a Strategic Acquisitions Committee. Membership of each committee is shown in
the following table.
46
[[page 56]]
Nominating and
Corporate Strategic
Compensation Governance Acquisitions
Name Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee
Rhys J. Best
Donald G. Cook l l l
Barbara J. Duganier l ▲ l
Donna E. Epps ▲ l
Tyler Glover
Karl F. Kurz l ▲
Robert Roosa l l l
Murray Stahl l l
Marguerite Woung-Chapman l ▲
▲Chair l Member
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee consists of Marguerite Woung-Chapman, the chair, Donald G.
Cook, Donna E. Epps, and Murray Stahl. The Board has determined that each of the committee members have met the
independence requirements for service on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in accordance with the NYSE
Listed Company Manual. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for, among other things,
identifying, evaluating and recommending individuals qualified to become members of the Board, and for overseeing corporate
governance matters and the Company’s policies and programs concerning social responsibility, including ESG matters. During
the Last Fiscal Year, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee held four (4) meetings.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter is provided on the Company’s corporate website at
www.TexasPacific.com.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of Donna E. Epps, the chair, Donald G. Cook, Barbara J. Duganier, Robert Roosa and
Marguerite Woung-Chapman. The Board has determined that Ms. Epps, Ms. Duganier, and Mr. Roosa are “audit committee
financial experts,” as defined by the rules of the SEC, and each has accounting or related financial management expertise as
required under the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Each member of the Audit Committee is financially literate. Additionally,
the members of the Audit Committee each meet the independence requirements for service on the Audit Committee in
accordance with the NYSE Listed Company Manual and Rule 10A-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
The Audit Committee is responsible for, among other things, ensuring that the Company has adequate internal controls
and is required to meet with the Company’s auditors to review these internal controls and to discuss other financial reporting
matters. The Audit Committee is also responsible for the appointment, pre-approval of work, compensation, and oversight of
the auditors and for overseeing enterprise risk management, including oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. The Audit
Committee periodically reviews the Company’s policies and practices for managing cybersecurity risks, including incident
response plans, to ensure that such policies and practices are appropriately tailored to the Company’s risk framework. During
the Last Fiscal Year, the Audit Committee of the Company held seven (7) meetings.
The Audit Committee Charter is provided on the Company’s corporate website at www.TexasPacific.com.
Compensation Committee
The Compensation Committee consists of Barbara J. Duganier, the chair, Donald G. Cook, Karl F. Kurz and Robert
Roosa. The Board has determined that each member of the Compensation Committee is independent, as defined by the NYSE
Listed Company Manual and qualifies as a “non-employee director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The
primary functions of the Compensation Committee are to review, approve and recommend corporate goals and objectives
relevant to compensation of TPL’s Named Executive Officers (as defined below), review and approve TPL’s compensation
plans and review and make recommendations regarding compensation for non-employee directors. During the Last Fiscal
47
[[page 57]]
Year, the Compensation Committee held five (5) meetings and acted by written consent in lieu of holding a meeting one (1)
time.
The Compensation Committee Charter is provided on the Company’s corporate website at www.TexasPacific.com.
Strategic Acquisitions Committee
The Strategic Acquisitions Committee consists of Karl F. Kurz, the chair, Barbara J. Duganier, Robert Roosa and
Murray Stahl. The Strategic Acquisitions Committee is responsible for, among other things, assisting the Board in fulfilling its
oversight responsibilities relating to evaluating potential acquisitions by reviewing, analyzing, assessing and, in the case of
acquisitions involving cash consideration between $10.0 million and $50.0 million (subject to an annual cap), approving,
potential acquisitions being considered by the Company. During the Last Fiscal Year, the Strategic Acquisitions Committee
held five (5) meetings.
The Strategic Acquisitions Committee Charter is provided on the Company’s corporate website at
www.TexasPacific.com.
Ad Hoc Committees
From time to time, the Board constitutes ad hoc committees, the membership, duties and compensation, if any, of
which are determined by the Board.
Item 11. Executive Compensation.
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
This Compensation Discussion and Analysis (“CD&A”) provides information on the compensation arrangements for
each of TPL’s Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), up to
three other most highly compensated individuals who were serving as an executive officer at the end of the Last Fiscal Year,
and up to two other individuals who would have been included as other most highly compensated individuals but who were not
serving as executive officers at the end of the Last Fiscal Year, for services rendered to TPL and its subsidiaries in all capacities
during the Last Fiscal Year (the “Named Executive Officers”). The compensation disclosures below reflect Fiscal Year 2025.
For Fiscal Year 2025, the following officers represented our Named Executive Officers:
• Tyler Glover, our President and Chief Executive Officer
• Chris Steddum, our Chief Financial Officer
• Micheal W. Dobbs, our Senior Vice President, Secretary, and General Counsel
Executive Summary
Our business activity is generated from our surface and royalty interest ownership, primarily in the Permian Basin.
Our revenues are derived from oil and gas royalties, water sales, produced water royalties, easements and other surface-related
income and land sales. Due to the nature of our operations and concentration of our ownership in one geographic location, our
revenue and net income are subject to substantial fluctuations from quarter to quarter and year to year. In addition to
fluctuations in response to changes in the market price for oil and gas, our financial results are also subject to decisions by the
owners and operators of not only the oil and gas wells to which our oil and gas royalty interests relate, but also to other owners
and operators in the Permian Basin as it relates to our other revenue streams, principally water sales, produced water royalties,
easements and other surface-related revenue.
Business and Financial Performance 2025 Highlights
• The Company achieved record performance results in 2025, including:
◦ Net income of $481.4 million, or $6.97 per share (diluted)
◦ Revenues of $798.2 million
48
[[page 58]]
◦ Adjusted EBITDA(1) of $687.4 million
◦ Free cash flow(1) of $498.3 million
◦ Royalty production of 34.6 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day
• The Water Service and Operations segment achieved record performance results in 2025, including:
◦ Water sales revenue of $169.7 million;
◦ Produced water royalties revenue of $124.2 million;
◦ Total segment revenues of $307.5 million; and
◦ Total segment net income of $159.0 million.
• Paid total cash dividends of $2.13 per share.
• Effected a three-for-one stock split on December 22, 2025.
• Acquired 17,306 NRA located primarily in the Midland Basin in Martin, Howard, Midland, and other counties for an
aggregate purchase price of $450.7 million, net of post-closing adjustments, in an all-cash transaction.
• Acquired 8,147 acres of land in Martin County, Texas for an aggregate purchase price, inclusive of closing costs, of
$31.4 million in an all-cash transaction.
• Invested $50.0 million in Bolt pursuant to a strategic agreement to develop and enable large scale data center campuses
and supporting infrastructure across TPL land.
• Entered into a $500.0 million Credit Facility.
(1) Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP performance measures. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are provided in Part II, Item
7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP Performance Measures.”
Key Objectives of 2025 Compensation Program Design
Following a substantial redesign of our compensation programs in 2022, and based on positive feedback from our
stockholders, the Compensation Committee generally maintained the overall program structure in 2025. This program design is
based on typical practices among our Reference Group (see below) while reflecting the unique aspects of TPL. The
compensation program design is intended to meet the following objectives:
• Align executives’ financial interests with the interests of our stockholders;
• Tie a substantial portion of executive compensation with the Company’s performance (both stock price and financial
performance) to incorporate risk into the awards, while relying heavily on formulaic incentive compensation;
• Incorporate long-term vesting periods for a substantial portion of executive compensation to help ensure continuity of
the management team;
• Ensure transparency for participants and stockholders about how outcomes are determined with an appropriate and
competitive level of pay at risk;
• Meet common governance standards for public companies, and assess and control the program to avoid creating undue
risk or encouraging excessive risk-tasking by executives; and
• Ensure a competitive compensation program.
49
[[page 59]]
We believe that our program, including awards under the Texas Pacific Land Corporation 2021 Incentive Plan (the
“2021 Plan”), has an appropriate balance of risk and reward in relation to our overall business strategy and that the balance of
compensation elements discourages excessive risk-taking.
We have maintained the key objectives of our compensation program for 2026.
Decision-Making Process
Compensation Philosophy and Approach
TPL’s 2025 executive compensation program is designed to recruit and retain an executive team and to reward
performance in achieving TPL’s goal of creating stockholder value. The 2025 executive compensation program consists
principally of a base salary, an annual cash incentive (sometimes referred to as awards under a non-equity incentive plan), and
long-term share-based compensation as discussed below:
Key Compensation Component Purpose Philosophy
Base Salary • Provide a competitive level of fixed • Set at a competitive level annually by
compensation the Compensation Committee and the
Board, as applicable
• Based on evaluation of executive
officers’ performance and
contributions and competitive market
data
Annual Cash Incentive • Align executive officer pay with • Individual target levels set at a
performance competitive level based on
competitive market data and executive
• Reward for achievement of annual goals, officers’ contribution level
both financial and non-financial
• Payouts heavily influenced by
• Establish strategic priorities for the year performance against pre-set goals
through the strategic portion of the award
• Portion of award earned through
achievements against strategic
priorities
Long-Term Incentives • Align executive pay with long-term • Individual awards set at a competitive
stockholder experience through share level based on competitive market
ownership data and executive officers’
contribution level
• Encourage long-term retention through
extended vesting periods • At least 50% of each executive
officers’ awards are performance-
• Tie executive pay outcomes to long-term based
performance through performance-based
awards • Performance tied to long-term share
price and financial performance,
based on pre-set goals
As part of its compensation program, TPL also maintains both a qualified defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension
Plan”) and a qualified defined contribution plan which are both available to employees generally, including the Named
Executive Officers. These plans are designed to assist employees in planning for their retirement. The Pension Plan was frozen
as of December 31, 2024, and no future benefit accruals were made. In conjunction with freezing the Pension Plan, the Board
has approved a discretionary contribution to employees’ 401(k) plan for 2025. As of December 31, 2025, the Pension Plan was
terminated. See further discussion of the termination of the Pension Plan in Note 9, “Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”
Consideration of 2025 Say on Pay Vote
At our November 2025 annual meeting of stockholders, the majority of our stockholders voted to approve our
executive compensation program, with approximately 87% approval among votes cast. The Compensation Committee viewed
this as support of its approach and philosophy and as a basis for continuing with the program described in this CD&A for 2025.
50
[[page 60]]
In 2025, we engaged ICR, LLC (“ICR”), a strategic communications and advisory firm, to conduct a perception study
survey of our stockholders to consider their perspectives on various issues, including strategy, capital allocation, governance
and overall performance. Respondents generally acknowledged recent changes such as the declassification of the Board and
stockholders’ ability to call a special meeting as positives. Certain respondents also stated that the Company’s conversion to a
C-corporation has been a success. Respondents did not provide specific feedback on or suggest any changes to our
compensation program.
Role of the Compensation Committee
The Compensation Committee has the sole authority to determine the compensation of the Named Executive Officers
other than the Chief Executive Officer and to make recommendations to the Board, which has the authority to make final
decisions, with respect to the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer. The Compensation Committee is also responsible
for developing and overseeing an equity compensation program for the Company generally for other employees, and for
making recommendations to the Board with respect to compensation for non-employee directors, with assistance from the
Compensation Committee’s independent compensation consultant.
In establishing the Named Executive Officers’ compensation for 2025, the chair of the Compensation Committee and
the full Compensation Committee met multiple times, including with management and/or the Compensation Committee’s
independent compensation consultant, to review market practices, evaluate potential alternatives, determine appropriate metrics
and goals, and review strategic goals and performance. Additionally, the Compensation Committee reviews performance
evaluations of the Named Executive Officers and other officers and a self-evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer.
Role of Management
Our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Glover, provided recommendations for compensation for his direct reports.
Additionally, the management team provided the Compensation Committee with financial performance information to assist
with the assessment of company and individual performance in determining the bonuses for 2025. The Compensation
Committee considered this information in its decision-making process. No member of management participated in discussions
relating to his or her own compensation.
Role of the Independent Consultant
Since 2021, the Compensation Committee has used Meridian Compensation Partners (“Meridian”) as its independent
compensation consultant to assist the Compensation Committee in fulfilling its responsibilities related to the oversight of TPL’s
executive officer and non-employee director compensation. The Compensation Committee determined that Meridian was
independent from management based upon the consideration of various relevant factors, including that Meridian did not
provide any services to TPL except advisory services to the Compensation Committee, and that Meridian maintained, and
adhered to, policies and procedures that were designed to prevent conflicts of interests.
The independent compensation consultant advises the Compensation Committee in the development of pay strategies
regarding our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, and non-employee directors. The Compensation
Committee reviews and discusses matters involving executive officer and non-employee director compensation. Following this
review, the Compensation Committee makes a determination and/or recommendation to the Board, as applicable under the
Compensation Committee’s Charter, regarding, among other things (a) the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and the
compensation of executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer, in each case including salary, bonus, benefits,
incentive awards and perquisites, and (b) compensation for TPL’s non-employee directors.
Benchmarking Process
Determining the 2025 Compensation Program
As described below, the Compensation Committee asked Meridian to review market data as part of the process of
establishing 2025 compensation for our Named Executive Officers. As part of this process, the Compensation Committee
noted that TPL is a unique organization in a number of ways:
• It is the largest publicly-traded oil and gas mineral royalty focused organization;
• Unlike most mineral royalty focused organizations, TPL also owns and manages a large amount of surface rights;
51
[[page 61]]
• These surface rights allow the creation of additional business lines, such as our water business and SLEM and potential
investment opportunities, including data centers and power generation infrastructure;
• TPL’s legacy assets carry zero basis on the balance sheet; and
• TPL’s financial profile is unusual with limited debt, limited book assets, and high margins. TPL also returns a
significant portion of its cash flow to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases.
As a result of these unique characteristics, TPL does not have any direct peers. Instead of reviewing peer group
market data, the Compensation Committee asked Meridian to review compensation for a group of comparable reference
companies (the “Reference Group”) that may represent our competition for executive talent. The Reference Group (listed
below) represents companies which operate in ancillary businesses such as royalty/non-operating companies (“Royalty/Non-
Op”), midstream companies/water companies and E&P companies that have business lines similar to TPL and are similar in
market capitalization, enterprise value, and/or Adjusted EBITDA.
The table below lists the companies included in our Reference Group for purposes of determining compensation for
2025:
Royalty/Non-Op Companies Midstream/Water Companies E&P Companies
Black Stone Minerals, L.P. Aris Water Solutions, Inc.(1) Civitas Resources, Inc.
Freehold Royalties Ltd. DT Midstream, Inc. Matador Resources Co
Kimbell Royalty Partners, LP EnLink Midstream, LLC(1) Ovintiv, Inc.
Northern Oil & Gas, Inc. Kinetik Holdings, Inc. Permian Resources Corp
PrairieSky Royalty Ltd Select Water Solutions, Inc. Range Resources Corp
Sitio Royalties Corp(1) Western Midstream Partners, L.P. SM Energy Co
(1) The referenced company was acquired by or merged with another company in 2025.
2025 Compensation Program
TPL’s 2025 executive compensation program is designed to reward performance in achieving TPL’s goals of creating
stockholder value as detailed below.
Base Salaries
Our Named Executive Officers receive a base salary to provide a competitive level of fixed compensation based on
each individual’s role, experience, qualifications, and individual performance. The base salaries as of the end of 2025 for our
Named Executive Officers were as follows:
Base Salary as of
Named Executive Officer December 31, 2025
Tyler Glover $ 850,000
Chris Steddum $ 545,000
Micheal W. Dobbs $ 455,000
The base salary for Mr. Glover is unchanged since 2020. The Compensation Committee increased the base salaries for
Mr. Steddum and Mr. Dobbs for 2025 to better align with market data from the Reference Group.
52
[[page 62]]
2025 Annual Incentive Targets
Each of the Named Executive Officers is eligible to earn an annual cash bonus, based on the target bonus, which is
expressed as a percentage of base salary and established based on references to market data as described above. The target
bonuses as a percentage of salary for each of our Named Executive Officers for 2025 is as follows:
2025 Target Bonus as
Named Executive Officer a % of Salary
Tyler Glover 110%
Chris Steddum 100%
Micheal W. Dobbs 80%
The target bonus as a percentage of base salary for Mr. Glover is unchanged from 2024. The Compensation
Committee increased the target bonus as a percentage of base salary for Mr. Steddum and Mr. Dobbs for 2025 to better align
with market data from the Reference Group.
The Compensation Committee has established a structured annual incentive program, with goals tied to key metrics for
the Company, pursuant to which the bonuses discussed above are awarded. For 2025, the metrics included two performance
metrics (Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow (“FCF”) per fully diluted share as well as several strategic objectives, as outlined
below.
2025 Annual (Short-Term) Incentive Program Summary
For 2025, the Compensation Committee approved a change in metrics for the short-term incentive program from
Adjusted EBITDA margin to Adjusted EBITDA. As our revenue has grown year-over-year, it has become increasingly
difficult to ensure alignment between maximizing FCF and increasing our Adjusted EBITDA margin. While maintaining our
high Adjusted EBITDA margin remains a priority for our management team, the Compensation Committee determined that
using Adjusted EBITDA as a metric for the short-term incentive program provides a more appropriate incentive for
management in maximizing stockholder value. Accordingly, for 2025, annual payouts under the short-term incentive were
based on the following metrics and weightings:
Metric Weight Rationale
Generating FCF is a high priority for TPL, which enables greater returns to
FCF per Fully Diluted Share(1) 50% stockholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Measuring FCF on a
per share basis ensures that any share dilution is appropriately used t