
===== AR2018 page 14 =====
Sarawak Energy Berhad
PAGE_12
www.sarawakenergy.com
INTRODUCTION
Sarawak Energy continues to pursue the development of indigenous hydro, coal and gas resources to provide reliable and affordable 
power for the growth and prosperity of the region. Sarawak Energy is committed to harnessing Sarawak’s abundant natural resources 
in a sustainable manner, compliant with Sarawak and Malaysian law and guided by international best practices.
ADVANCING HYDROPOWER
The development of hydropower is key to 
providing sustainable, clean and affordable 
energy for Sarawak and its people and 
has enabled Sarawak to offer the lowest 
unsubsidised electricity tariffs for all its 
customers compared to in Malaysia and 
within the ASEAN region. Sarawak Energy 
became involved in hydropower in 1985 
when Batang Ai, Sarawak’s first hydroelectric 
plant, came into operation. Sarawak Energy 
now has 75% hydro in the generation mix 
derived from the Murum, Bakun and Batang 
Ai plants.
Bakun Hydroelectric Plant 
Sarawak Energy became the sole owner 
and operator of the 2,400MW Bakun 
Hydroelectric Plant (HEP) in 2017. 
Integrating the operations of Bakun HEP 
into the Group optimises water resources 
management between the Bakun and 
Murum HEPs, allowing resources to be 
allocated more efficiently, generating long-
term savings and supporting the distribution 
of a reliable power supply to Sarawak.
Baleh Hydroelectric Project
Located on the Baleh River, about 95km 
upstream from the confluence with the 
Rejang River in Kapit, the 188m high 
Concrete Faced Rockfill Dam is one of 
Sarawak’s largest infrastructure projects 
and will generate 1,285MW of renewable 
energy once completed. The project is 
expected to be fully commissioned in 2026. 
The main civil works for the plant are being 
carried out by Gezhouba Group Company 
Ltd. and Untang Jaya Sdn. Bhd. Joint 
Venture. 
How We’re Organised
Energy For Sarawak
The 944MW Murum HEP.
The Baleh HEP opens up the more remote 
parts of Kapit Division and connects villages 
to the main town. Four bridges link Kapit 
town to the project site in Putai, providing 
direct access from Kapit to the dam site and 
will benefit longhouses located along the 
route when the spur roads are completed.
ADVANCING HYDROPOWER
Batang Ai Hydroelectric Plant
108MW
Murum Hydroelectric Plant
944MW
Bakun Hydroelectric Plant
2,400 MW
Baleh Hydroelectric Plant
1,285MW
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
SECURING UPSTREAM RESOURCES
To secure its upstream resource supply, Sarawak 
Energy is developing coal resources in Balingian 
for its 2 x 312MW Coal-Fired Power Plant, a 
modern, low-emission plant which is scheduled 
for full commissioning in 2019. Developing coal 
resources in Mukah and Balingian will also 
accelerate the growth of the area’s infrastructure 
such as access roads and other basic amenities. 
Sarawak Energy is also extracting coal resources 
in Merit Pila, Kapit.
Sarawak Energy has been awarded six General 
Prospecting Licenses to explore coal in the 
Mukah and Balingian area. Sarawak has around 
1.7 billion tonnes of coal resources and Sarawak 
Energy plans to use 5.4 million tonnes of locally 
mined coal each year to generate power from 
coal-fired power plants. The coal mines will 
supply the Balingian Coal-Fired Power Plant for 
25 years and Sarawak Energy will implement 
advanced mining practices and planning 
techniques to optimise coal recovery and ensure 
long-term coal resource development.

===== AR2018 page 15 =====
PAGE_13
Sarawak Energy Berhad
www.sarawakenergy.com
THERMAL POWER FOR ENERGY SECURITY
Balingian Coal-Fired Power Plant
The construction of the 624MW Balingian  
Coal-Fired Power Plant is entering 
commissioning and testing phase. The first 
shipment of coal has been delivered and the 
plant is due for full commissioning by the end 
of 2019. The plant is the first in Malaysia to 
use circulating fluidised bed boiler or CFB 
technology, allowing it to handle a wide range 
of coal types including high moisture coal 
commonly found in the Balingian region. It is 
also the largest of its kind in Southeast Asia. 
The new technology will reduce the emission 
of nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide by 
more than 40%, improving the environmental 
footprint of the plant. 
The project is located near the Balingian 
River, 25km south east of the Mukah 2 x 
135MW Power Station and about 60km from 
Mukah Town. The RM3 billion project consists 
of nine work packages: the construction of 
the main power plant; substation and plant 
site earthworks; upgrading of the access 
road; administration and ancillary buildings; 
operator’s village; the 33kV supply; 275kV 
transmission substation and lines and ash 
pond. About 45% of the work is undertaken by 
local contractors. 
Tanjung Kidurong New Combined Cycle 
Gas Turbine
The Tanjung Kidurong Combined Cycle 
Gas Turbine (CCGT) project is an extension 
of the existing Kidurong Power Station 
at Bintulu. It consists of two blocks 
which are expected to add 842MW of 
gross generating capacity when they are 
commissioned in Q3 2020 and Q1 2021 
respectively. The CCGT is set to be one of 
the most efficient combined cycle power 
plants for its class in the world when it is 
completed.
General Electric (GE) – a world leader in 
power generation solutions for utilities 
– takes the lead as the engineering 
procurement and construction (EPC) 
contractor with consortium partner 
Sinohydro, which is China’s key power and 
infrastructure EPC contractor.
GE will provide operations and maintenance 
support for the project, including training 
for operations and maintenance personnel, 
technical support and major spare parts. 
Using the predictive capabilities of GE’s 
Monitoring and Diagnostics (M&D) Centre 
in Kuala Lumpur, Sarawak Energy will use 
real-time data collection to improve its 
decision-making and potentially reduce 
maintenance costs at Tanjung Kidurong. 
GE’s computerised maintenance system will 
help to increase safety mechanisms and the 
reliability and efficiency of the plant.
STRENGTHENING THE RELIABILITY OF  
OUR SYSTEM
Reinforcement Projects to Strengthen 
Miri Electricity Grid
From 2014 to 2020, Sarawak Energy has 
committed in the region of RM1 billion 
for reinforcement work to improve the 
reliability of Miri’s electricity supply. Major 
projects which have been completed since 
2014 include additional injection points 
and the construction of zone substations 
in urban Miri to cater for the city’s rapid 
development and expansion. Feeders and 
transformers have also been upgraded 
and ageing equipment and power lines 
have been replaced. Most of the projects 
and upgrading works are expected to 
be completed within the next four years 
and will significantly strengthen the Miri 
network.
The 317MW Bintulu Combined Cycle Power Station.
GAS 
• Bintulu Power Station (Combined Cycle) 317MW
• Bintulu Power Station (Open Cycle) 165MW
• Miri Power Station 102MW 
• Tanjung Kidurong CCGT 421MW x 2
 commissioning date : 2021
COAL 
• Mukah Power Station 270MW
• Sejingkat Power Station 210MW
• Balingian Power Station 624MW
 commissioning date : 2019
DIESEL
• Kuching Power Station 64MW
SECURITY OF SUPPLY

===== AR2018 page 22 =====
Sarawak Energy Berhad
PAGE_18
www.sarawakenergy.com
We also recorded a significant milestone with 
the delivery of the first shipment of coal to our 
Balingian Coal-Fired Power Plant. The plant is 
due for commissioning at the end of 2019 and 
will add an additional 624MW of generation 
capacity to Sarawak’s grid. It will help meet 
demand from our retail and bulk power SCORE 
customers and continue to provide energy 
security to our generation mix.
SARAWAK ENERGY AND HYDROPOWER
We continue to make progress in furthering 
the development of hydropower in Sarawak 
as we strive to power Sarawak’s progression. 
We entered the hydropower arena 30 years 
ago with the Batang Ai hydroelectric plant. Our 
involvement in hydropower has accelerated in 
the last 10 years and our projects support the 
Government’s vision to realise socio-economic 
transformation and high-income status for the 
people of Sarawak by 2030.
The development of the Baleh Hydroelectric 
Project is progressing well. It is scheduled to be 
fully commissioned in 2026 and will generate 
1,285MW of renewable energy.
A POWERHOUSE FOR THE REGION
We are pleased to report that our ambition to expand beyond Malaysia’s shore and become 
a regional powerhouse and battery for ASEAN is progressing well. Our partnership with 
Indonesia’s Northern Province of Kalimantan (KALTARA) plays an important role in our 
aspirations. Our relationship with KALTARA is more than two years old and together we aim to 
improve the power supply infrastructure in the province.
This year, we established our first international joint venture subsidiary, PT Kayan Hydropower 
Nusantara, and completed the full feasibility study for the 1,375MW hydroelectric plant at 
Mentarang Induk.
Our negotiations to sell power to Sabah are also progressing well. Exporting electricity to our 
neighbour will bring us closer to realising the Borneo Grid and to the development of the ASEAN 
Grid. We hope to start supplying power to Sabah by 2022.
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS
Throughout the year, Sarawak Energy remained at the forefront of the drive to bring electricity 
to even the most remote rural areas of Sarawak.
As we explore ways of reducing our carbon footprint, we present our achievements in the realm 
of sustainable energy development at leading regional conferences. Our practices are in line 
with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
BOARD MATTERS
In 2018, there were no changes to the composition of our Board of Directors.
BUMIPUTERA PARTICIPATION
In 2018, we continued to promote the involvement of Bumiputera entrepreneurs in our 
procurement and contract activities, in line with the vision of the Sarawak Government.
Our contractor community numbers around 340 registrations, of which around 80% are local 
Sarawakian. We aim to grow this number through a range of initiatives and to expand the pool 
of qualified local contractors that can participate in our projects. Contractors who attended the 
briefing also received 20 Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) points each, which 
will go towards the points required for them to renew their CIDB memberships.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
Sarawak Energy was honoured to be the recipient of several prestigious awards throughout the 
year, in recognition of our determination to achieve excellence in all the sectors in which we 
conduct our business.
The Sarawak Alternative Rural Electrification Scheme, or SARES, was accorded global 
recognition from the International Alliance for Rural Electrification in Catania, Sicily.
At the 10th Annual Global CSR Awards, we received platinum under the Empowerment of 
Women category and gold under the Best Community Programme category for our initiative to 
treat eye disease.
We remain firmly 
committed to the goal of 
providing energy to even 
the most remote areas 
of Sarawak and by 2020, 
our aim is that 99% of 
Sarawak will have  
access to electricity.
”
“
