
===== ASR2021 page 4 =====
Part 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT
2
Sarawak Energy Berhad 3
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Sarawak Energy’s current success is fuelled 
by both robust corporate strategies and the 
trust of our shareholders, stakeholders and 
customers. As part of our commitment to 
good corporate governance practices, we 
continue to voluntarily provide updates on 
our operational, financial and sustainable 
performance through our annual reports, 
even though non-public-listed companies 
are not required to do so.
The Sarawak Energy Annual and 
Sustainability Report (ASR) provides a 
holistic and comprehensive overview of the 
Company’s activities and performance for 
the year 2021. Since this year marks our 
100th anniversary, this report also highlights 
significant milestones from our history.
The year 2021 has been as challenging 
as the year before due to the ongoing 
pandemic. Nonetheless, Sarawak Energy 
remains resilient in the face of difficulties 
and has continued to grow despite the 
constantly changing business landscape, as 
demonstrated through the disclosures in our 
ASR 2021.
REPORTING STANDARDS
Guided by local and global best practices 
in corporate statutory reporting, with the 
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Listing 
Requirements as well as the Malaysian 
Code on Corporate Governance serving as 
our primary guidelines, our annual report 
has also complied with the standards set by 
the Australasian Reporting Awards (ARA).
For further assurance to our stakeholders, 
this report has been prepared in accordance 
with the GRI Standards: Core option for our 
sustainability reporting. For the complete 
list of Sarawak Energy’s GRI disclosures 
and relevant references, you may refer to 
ASSURANCE
The Sarawak Energy ASR 2021 has been 
assured by an independent third party. The 
assurance statement can be found on page 
178-182 of this report.
Note:
All rights reserved. No part of this report shall be reproduced, or quoted in other publications or presentations, or used in any other way or stored in an information 
retrieval system (except for purposes of review) without express/written permission from Sarawak Energy. Request for permission to use this report or any part thereof 
shall be made in writing to Sarawak Energy's Corporate Communication Department via corpcomm@sarawakenergy.com. In any event, Sarawak Energy shall not be 
responsible for any claims, losses and/or damages incurred as a result of reliance on the disclosures in this report or any part thereof.
page 183 - 232 of this report. Since 2019, 
our sustainability report has included 
recommendations from the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) to provide consistent, comparable, 
reliable, clear and efficient climate-related 
financial disclosures to help our investors 
and stakeholders make informed decisions.
Sarawak Energy will continue to improve the 
quality of our reporting while also growing 
the scope of our disclosures.
REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
The ASR 2021 consists of a comprehensive 
overview of the Company’s activities and 
performance for the period from 1 January 
to 31 December 2021. This includes 
information on our leadership, corporate 
strategies and commitments and corporate 
governance and performance report card, 
as well as sustainability approaches, 
responsibilities and milestones.
This report also highlights the 
accomplishments, challenges, risks and 
opportunities during the year, as well as our 
plans, goals and objectives for the coming 
year, so that our stakeholders have a better 
understanding of our next steps.
The ASR 2021 was developed in response 
to the feedback received from Sarawak 
Energy’s stakeholders and is based on the 
assessment of our operations in light of the 
changes occurring in the economy, as well 
as the domestic and global energy industry.
ASSESSMENT OF MATERIAL MATTERS
Our Materiality Issues and Materiality Matrix 
presented on page 95 of this report are 
based on the assessment of matters that 
are of the utmost importance to Sarawak 
Energy and our stakeholders.
STATEMENT OF THE BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS OF SARAWAK 
ENERGY BERHAD
The Board is pleased to present 
the Sarawak Energy Annual and 
Sustainability Report 2021 with 
the confidence that it is a fair 
representation of Sarawak Energy’s 
performance throughout 2021.
Approved by the Board of Directors 
and signed on behalf of the Board.
Datuk Amar Abdul Hamed Sepawi
Chairman
Datu Haji Sharbini Suhaili
Group Chief Executive Officer
ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY 
Sarawak Energy is an energy development group of companies and 
a vertically integrated power utility, wholly-owned by the Sarawak 
Government. Our business includes the generation, transmission, 
distribution, retail and export of electricity.
With an energy mix that is predominantly renewable hydropower, complemented by 
indigenous gas and coal for energy security and diversity, we provide the power to light up 
communities, homes and businesses across Sarawak and beyond.
This year marks the 100th year Sarawak Energy has been entrusted to power Sarawak. From 
our humble beginnings in 1921, we have grown and transformed from a traditional utility into 
a modern and agile corporation, becoming the largest employer of Sarawakian talents. 
Today, we are Malaysia’s largest renewable energy developer and are working towards 
becoming a regional powerhouse that is fully capable of fulfilling our vision of providing 
renewable, reliable and affordable energy to Sarawak and beyond.
A CENTURY OF 
GROWTH:
1921-2021 
A century ago, our generation mix was 
fully fossil fuel but is now predominantly 
renewable hydropower, supplemented 
by indigenous gas and coal, with a 
generation capacity of 5,646MW. 
From about 30 employees in the 1920s, 
our workforce now stands at 5,442.
In 1923, we had 84 customers. Today, 
we have 734,896 1 customers, including 
industrial and export customers.
Rural electrification in Sarawak has 
risen to 96.5%*, bringing the overall 
electrification rate to 98.6%*.
Investments in renewable hydropower 
have significantly reduced our grid 
emissions intensity, enabling us to 
contribute to Malaysia’s decarbonisation 
target.
The first company in Sarawak to 
have electric cars and the first in 
Southeast Asia to include hydrogen 
fuel cell vehicles in its corporate fleet 
to encourage the adoption of green 
vehicles. 
Successfully commissioned Southeast 
Asia’s first Integrated Hydrogen 
Production Plant and Refuelling Station 
in Kuching in 2019.
Launched Sarawak’s first renewable 
energy certificate (REC) in 2019. 
The first corporate body in Malaysia to 
commit to the “Business Ambition for 
1.5°C” pledge under the United Nations 
Global Compact Network to limit global 
temperature rise to 1.5°C above  
pre-industrial levels by 2030.
FEEDBACK
We welcome feedback, comments and 
enquiries via the following:
Corporate-related Enquiries:
corpcomm@sarawakenergy.com
Sustainability-related Enquiries:
sustainability@sarawakenergy.com
Notes:
1 Active customer accounts.
* These Sarawak electrification coverage and rural electrification coverage data have been assured by a third 
party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Customer Accounts 1
734,896
Member of the
Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Community
since 2016
Member of the UN Global 
Compact Network Malaysia 
& Brunei (UNGCMYB)
Total Employees
5,442
(as of 31 st December 2021)
Platinum member  of the 
International Hydropower 
Association (IHA)
since 2010
104,537
Commercial
1,087
Industrial
12,017
Public lighting
617,255
Domestic
102-12, 102-40, 102-42, 102-46, 102-50, 102-53, 102-54 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-13, 103-1, EU3, EU26
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 5 =====
Part 2 ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY
4
Sarawak Energy Berhad 5
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
100 YEARS OF POWERING SARAWAK 100 YEARS OF POWERING SARAWAK
Sarawak Energy marked 
its 100 th anniversary of 
powering Sarawak in 2021 
since our inception as an 
Electrical Section set up 
under the Public Works 
Department during the 
Brooke Administration in 
1921.
Sarawak’s public electricity supply 
began when Rajah Charles Vyner 
Brooke acquired two coal-fired steam 
engines from gold miners in Bau 
for installation in Kuching. The first 
power station was commissioned in 
1923. 
Over the past 100 years, we have 
undergone tremendous changes 
in administration, business model, 
technology and people capabilities, 
but our commitment to lighting 
up communities across Sarawak 
remains unchanged. 
Sarawak Energy’s transformation 
has been a progressive learning 
journey enabled by the people and 
government of Sarawak. We look 
forward to the next century of growth 
together with our shareholders, 
customers and stakeholders.
• Electrical Section within Public Works 
Department set up to oversee electricity 
supply in Sarawak.
• Kuching’s first power station commissioned 
at Jalan Power where Electra House now 
stands.
1920s
• Miri’s first power station commissioned.
• Betong supplied with power for the first time.
1940s
1930s
• Electricity supply reached Sarikei, Dalat, 
Binatang (Bintangor), Simanggang (Sri Aman) 
and Bintulu.
• Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation 
(SESCo) was formed to supply electricity 
throughout Sarawak.
• Mukah power plant came into operation.
• Extension of supply planned to 15 new 
centres – Bari, Batu Kawah, Batu 10, Batu 
32, Bau, Dalat, Lawas, Limbang, Marudi, 
Saratok, Serian, Sibuti, Siniawan, Sungai 
Merah (Sibu) and Spaoh.
• British-ruled Sarawak Government took over 
SESCo in September 1953.
• New Sungai Priok power station in Pending, 
Kuching commissioned with total 4.05MW 
generating capacity.
1950s
1970s
• Bakun Hydroelectric Plant (HEP) on the 
Balui river upstream of Belaga proposed.
• Kuching completed 38.4MW power 
station at Kg. Biawak.
1960s
• The Sarawak Electricity Supply Company 
Limited (SESCo) was dissolved, and all 
electricity installations were transferred to 
and vested in Sarawak Electricity Supply 
Corporation (SESCO) under the Sarawak 
Electricity Supply Corporation Ordinance 
1962.
• Rural Electrification Scheme was 
announced to supply 90% of Sarawakians 
with electricity over the next 40 years.
• SESCo started exploration of 
hydroelectric potential through a 
Colombo Plan survey.
• Sarawak Enterprise Corporation Berhad 
(SECB) acquired 45% equity in SESCO 
from the Sarawak Government. 
• 195MW Tanjong Kidurong Power Station 
became the largest gas-fired plant in 
Sarawak.
• Two 50MW coal-fired generators came 
online before the 210MW Sejingkat Power 
Plant’s completion in 2004 – Sarawak’s first 
major coal-fired power plant.
1990s
• SESCO became a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of SECB and was renamed 
Syarikat SESCO Berhad.
• Sarawak Enterprise Corporation Berhad 
officially renamed as Sarawak Energy 
Berhad in 2007.
• Launch of the Sarawak Corridor of 
Renewable Energy (SCORE) in 2008 to 
leverage Sarawak’s abundant renewable 
hydropower and natural resources to 
power energy-intensive industries and 
attract other investments into the area.
• RM2.7 billion 500kV second transmission 
backbone project commenced in 2013, 
running parallel to the first 275kV 
Transmission Grid.
• Official launch of 944MW Murum HEP in 
2016.
• The 1,285MW Baleh Hydroelectric 
Project receives formal approval from 
the Sarawak Government in 2016.
• First power export to West Kalimantan, 
Indonesia in 2016, our first step towards 
materialising the Borneo Grid and the 
wider ASEAN Power Grid.
2000s
• Part of the State’s rural electrification 
masterplan’s strategy to achieve full coverage 
by 2025, the Sarawak Alternative Rural 
Electrification Scheme (SARES) – an innovative
 
government-community partnership model – 
was launched in 2016.
• Sarawak acquired the 2,400MW Bakun HEP 
from the Federal Government in 2017.
• Launched Sarawak Energy Excellence Roadmap 
and five key focus areas in 2017.
• Southeast Asia’s first Integrated Hydrogen 
Production Plant and Refuelling Station in 
Kuching was launched in 2019 to support 
Sarawak’s Green Energy Agenda, with the 
introduction of Sarawak’s first hydrogen-
powered vehicles.
• Northern Grid Extension Project to connect 
Limbang Division to the main grid commenced 
in 2019.
• Ministry of Utilities and Sarawak Energy 
organised SAREF – an international conference 
of energy and sustainability leaders – where 
Sarawak’s first renewable energy certificate 
(REC) was launched in 2019.
• Sarawak Energy became the first corporation in 
Malaysia to commit to the “Business Ambition 
for 1.5°Celsius” under United Nations Global 
Compact in 2020.
• A Power Exchange Agreement and an 
Interconnection Agreement signed with Sabah 
Electricity Sdn Bhd (SESB) in 2021, further 
advancing the Borneo Grid and ASEAN Power 
Grid.
• Sarawak’s largest civil engineering 
project, Batang Ai HEP was commissioned, 
launching the company’s hydropower 
journey to create sustainable 
value for 
Sarawak.
• New headquarters at Wisma SESCO 
completed. The architectural landmark 
resembled an electric transformer.
1980s
102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10, 102-12, 103-2, EU26
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 7 =====
Part 2 ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY
8
Sarawak Energy Berhad 9
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR 
SARAWAK & BEYOND
Sarawak Energy takes a holistic approach to power development, balancing energy security, 
sustainability and affordability to achieve sustainable socio-economic transformation in 
Sarawak and the region. Our efforts are also aligned with and support the state’s Post COVID-19 
Development Strategy 2030 that puts affordable, reliable and renewable energy as the key 
enabler to sustainable economic growth.
In pursuing this, we are committed to sustainable development and our business strategies are aligned 
with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), with a focus on six goals that 
enable value creation and sustainable growth.
CARBON FOOTPRINT
Carbon intensity for electricity supply 
decreased by 72% 
from 2011 to 2021.
Our total main grid emissions this year was 
5.98 million tCO 2eq, a 
7% 
increased from 2020.
Our emissions intensity, of  
0.198 tCO2eq/MWh*, 
continues to be one of the lowest when 
benchmarked against other power utility 
companies globally.
ELECTRICITY TARIFF 
We offer among the most competitively-priced average 
unsubsidised tariffs in Southeast Asia. 
Our average rate is 27.3 cents/kWh.
This has attracted significant investments from power-intensive 
industries to Sarawak, powering job creation and socio-
economic growth. 
LIGHTING UP COMMUNITIES
In line with UN SDG No.7 to ensure access to affordable, 
reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, the Sarawak 
Government, through the Ministry of Utilities (now known as the 
Ministry of Utility and Telecommunication), has entrusted us to 
accelerate rural electrification through the Rural Electrification 
Scheme (RES), Rural Power Supply Scheme (RPSS) and 
Sarawak Alternative Rural Electrification Scheme (SARES), to 
support Sarawak’s ambition to achieve full electrification by 2025.
As of 31 December 2021, we have achieved 98.6%* overall 
domestic coverage and 96.5%* rural coverage. 
CAPTURING GROWTH 
Renewable hydropower offers investors reliable, renewable 
and affordable energy, as well as the option to green their 
operations.
SCORE
Between 2008 and 2021, 14 Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPA) have been signed with industries 
in SCORE as well as a Power Exchange Agreement 
(PEA) for the interconnection with PLN in West 
Kalimantan. Close to a total of 2,930MW 
has been committed. 
LEADING REGIONAL EFFORTS IN CLIMATE ACTION
Green Building
Menara Sarawak Energy is the first building in Borneo to achieve a Green Building Index and has been 
rated Silver since 2013.
 
Greening the Transportation Sector  
• First company in Sarawak to incorporate electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles into its corporate fleet.
• Partnered with Malaysia Green Technology Corporation to install universal EV chargers in Kuching’s 
main malls and hotels.
• Supported the launch of four Kuching Metro electric city buses to further advance green mobility.
• Through our Integrated Hydrogen Production Plant and Refuelling Station, we fuel Kuching’s hydrogen buses and cars.
• Further seeding of universal public EV chargers that are being expanded and deployed to other cities such as Sibu, 
 Bintulu and Miri.
NEW OPPORTUNITIES
On 4 March, Sarawak Energy and 
PETRONAS signed a key term sheet to 
provide 90MW of electricity supply to the 
Malaysia LNG Complex at Tanjung Kidurong, 
Bintulu beginning in October 2024 for 20 
years.
On 15 December, we signed a term sheet 
agreement with Wenan Steel (Malaysia) Sdn 
Bhd for a potential future supply of 75MW to 
its steel manufacturing complex in Samalaju 
Industrial Park.
A BALANCED GENERATION MIX
Sarawak’s generation mix consists 
primarily of renewable hydropower, 
with indigenous gas and coal for 
energy security and diversity. 
To maintain at least 60% 
renewable energy in the 
generation mix with the balance 
from indigenous thermal resources.
Currently, Sarawak’s installed 
capacity is 5,646MW.
We are continuing to explore 
technological advances in 
alternative and renewable energy 
sources to light up Sarawak 
sustainably and cost-effectively.
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR 
SARAWAK & BEYOND
BECOMING A REGIONAL POWERHOUSE
A MORE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE
In 2016, we established Sarawak’s first 
interconnection to export power to West 
Kalimantan in Indonesia.
This year, we signed a Power Exchange 
Agreement and an Interconnection 
Agreement with SESB to export power 
supply to Sabah.
We are working with Sembcorp 
Industries and SP Group from 
Singapore to study a potential power 
interconnection between Sarawak and 
Singapore.
We are making significant progress in 
the comprehensive preparations for 
the proposed 1,375MW Mentarang 
Induk Hydroelectric Project in North 
Kalimantan, which will be our first 
international joint venture hydropower 
development project.
We are committed to implementing our plans to create an interconnected Borneo via the Borneo Grid and, subsequently, the ASEAN Power grid, placing 
Sarawak Energy as the Battery of ASEAN.
As a signatory of the 
San José Declaration on 
Sustainable Hydropower, 
Sarawak Energy is aligned 
with its principles and 
advocates that, “The only 
acceptable hydropower is 
sustainable hydropower”.
First corporate body 
in Malaysia to pledge 
support for “Business 
Ambition for 1.5°Celsius”. 
We commit to contribute 
to climate action through 
science-based targets.
SAREF 2.0 was held 
in November and this 
time, we partnered with 
UNGCMYB. SAREF 2.0 
was integrated within 
the GO ESG ASEAN 
2021 Summit as a 
parallel session over one 
afternoon.
Developing a 50MW 
floating solar project at 
the reservoir at Batang Ai 
HEP to increase the share 
of alternative energy in 
Sarawak’s generation mix.
Working with industrial 
players in the region to 
support decarbonisation. 
Supplying 100% 
renewable energy via 
the REC mechanism to 
offset carbon emissions 
associated with their 
electricity consumption.
With internationally 
trained in-house HSAP 
and HESG assessors, we 
reinforce our commitment 
to enhancing Sarawak 
Energy’s hydropower 
sustainability performance 
and establishing 
ourselves as a renewable 
hydropower specialist.
102-6, 102-9, 102-12, 103-1, 103-2, 203-1, EU26 102-12, 103-2, 305-1, 305-4, EU10
Note:
* These Sarawak electrification coverage and rural electrification coverage data have been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 
178-182.
Note:
* This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 8 =====
Part 2 ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY
10
Sarawak Energy Berhad 11
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
ENERGY FOR SARAWAK ENERGY FOR SARAWAK
RENEWABLE AND SUSTAINABLE HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT
Since the acquisition of Bakun from the Ministry of Finance in 2017, Sarawak Energy manages the Murum and Bakun HEPs as a single 
integrated operation under Malaysia’s first cascading hydropower dams.
SAN JOSÉ  DECLARATION ON SUSTAINABLE HYDROPOWER’S PRINCIPLES 
As one of the advocates of responsible hydropower development, Sarawak Energy is 
aligned with the San José Declaration on Sustainable Hydropower’s principles launched at 
the World Hydropower Congress 2021 in September.
For sustainable hydropower to deliver ongoing benefits, we are committed to the following 
principles:
• The only acceptable hydropower is sustainable hydropower.
• Sustainable hydropower requires stakeholders to work together.
• Sustainable hydropower delivers ongoing benefits to communities, livelihoods and the
climate.
Our fourth large renewable hydroelectric project, Baleh HEP , is currently scheduled to be 
completed by 2027.
Sarawak’s sustainable growth is anchored on the provision of reliable, affordable and 
regionally competitive energy. As Sarawak’s primary energy provider, we harness our natural 
resources ethically and sustainably to power development, helping to drive socio-economic 
transformation.
Sarawak's generation mix is predominantly renewable hydropower, complemented by 
indigenous coal and gas for diversity and energy security. In 2021, alternative energy from 
solar installations in our rural electrification projects made up around 1% of Sarawak’s 
generation mix and by 2030, large-scale solar will comprise about 4% of the generation 
mix.
Sarawak’s installed capacity has grown from 1,347MW in 2010 to 5,646MW today with 
large-scale renewable hydropower plants contributing to 3,452MW or 61.6% of the total 
capacity. Energy generated from renewable hydropower is an added value proposition for 
investors looking to ‘green’ their operations.
Our net energy generation for the year was around 30,163GWh* while total energy sold, 
including exports, was around 28,590GWh, enabling Sarawak to service the needs of 
residential, commercial, industrial, SCORE and export customers. 
3,452MW  or
61.6%
Contribution of Large-Scale 
Renewable Hydropower 
Plants to Total Capacity
30,163GWh*
Net Energy Generation 
(Main Grid)
Scan here to view the San José  
declaration on sustainable 
hydropower.
Provides modern power 
system and accelerates 
rural electrification efforts
Drove launch of 
Sarawak’s first 
Renewable Energy 
Certificate (REC)
Powers community growth
Decarbonised Sarawak’s 
power system
Bolsters Sarawak’s 
socio-economic 
transformation 
and digital 
economy, including 
development in 
rural areas
Lower Levelised Cost 
of Electricity (LCOE), 
enabling Sarawak to 
have among the most 
competitive average 
unsubsidised tariffs 
in the region
Drives renewable 
energy transition for 
a sustainable energy 
future in the region
Mitigates severity of 
downstream flooding during 
heavy rainfall
Supports the 
establishment of 
totally protected 
areas, such as the 
Batang Ai National 
Park
Literacy and 
Education
Culture and Heritage 
Preservation
Employability and 
Entrepreneurship
Health and 
Quality of Life
102-6, 102-9, 203-1, EU10 102-11, 102-12, 102-15
Note:
* This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 9 =====
Part 2 ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY ABOUT SARAWAK ENERGY
12
Sarawak Energy Berhad 13
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
ENERGY FOR SARAWAK  ENERGY FOR SARAWAK  
THERMAL POWER DEVELOPMENT
Renewable hydropower will continue to dominate our generation mix, with thermal power from our indigenous coal and gas providing 
additional supply security. 
Our 842MW Tanjung Kidurong Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCPP) project in Bintulu is an extension of the existing Kidurong Power 
Station and when completed, it will be one of the world’s most efficient combined-cycle power plants in its class.
In January 2021, we successfully delivered the first block of the Tanjung Kidurong CCPP project, adding 330MW to the State grid. The 
second CCPP was fired on 16 October 2021, putting it on track to be completed by Q2 2022.
Sarawak Energy’s 624MW Balingian Coal-fired Power Plant utilises indigenous local coal and is the Company’s last coal-fired power plant 
to be built and commissioned. The plant is designed based on Circulating Fluidised Bed (CFB) boiler technology, enabling the plant to 
handle a wide range of coal types, including high moisture indigenous coal. The plant’s CFB boiler reduces nitrogen dioxide and sulphur 
dioxide emissions, minimising its environmental footprint.
Meanwhile, the Sejingkat Coal-fired Power Plant still supports Kuching’s power supply requirements. The plant’s phased decommissioning 
is expected to start in 2026. 
SECURING UPSTREAM RESOURCES
In 2021, we were able to secure a reliable 
supply of coal from Sarawak’s Central 
Region, covering the coal needs of the 
Balingian Power Plant and the Sejingkat 
Power Plant while maintaining coal quality 
standards.
STRENGTHENING THE RELIABILITY OF OUR SYSTEM 
Sarawak Energy continues to invest in a strong and reliable transmission system to strengthen our network in Sarawak and expand export 
potential.
500kV Backbone Transmission Grid  
The 500kV Backbone Transmission 
Grid from Similajau (Bintulu) to Tondong 
(Kuching) is a second transmission 
backbone and runs parallel to the 275kV 
first transmission grid, strengthening 
Sarawak’s power system’s reliability and 
mitigating the current system constraints. 
The project is crucial for minimising the risk 
of major power disruptions, especially for 
customers in load centres like Sibu and 
Kuching. 
We are working on securing rights-of-way 
for the transmission line route, involving 
the main routes of Package A (Similajau 
to Mapai), Package B (Mapai to Lachau) 
and Package C (Lachau to Tondong). The 
Lachau to Tondong line is underway with 
expected completion in Q4 2022.
Northern Grid Extension Project  
We are advancing our Northern Grid Extension project to strengthen 
supply reliability in the Northern Region, expanding our transmission 
network across the length of Sarawak and creating injection points 
for potential power export to Sabah to realise the Borneo Grid. 
The project includes the construction of Extra High Voltage (EHV) 
275/33/11kV substations and 275kV transmission lines.
Scheduled for completion in the next few years, the project is an 
important infrastructure development that is being implemented 
in phases. The completion of the project will also enable Sarawak 
Energy to link up Limbang and Lawas to the transmission grid 
and decommission Limbang and Lawas’ diesel power plants, 
contributing to climate change efforts. 
Our investments in these projects have improved our System Average 
Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) for generation, transmission 
and distribution, allowing our customers to enjoy greater reliability 
of supply and less inconvenience from supply interruptions. Since 
2016, our overall SAIDI numbers have improved by 50%, from 242 
minutes to 120.74 minutes in 2021. 
Once Baleh HEP is completed, it will be connected to the 500kV Mapai substation by a 500kV transmission line now in the project 
funnel, which is expected to be completed in 2027. The Baleh-Mapai 500kV Transmission Line’s primary objective is to evacuate power 
from Baleh HEP , which fulfils the generation capacity development plan in SCORE owing to the growing demand from energy-intensive 
businesses which are keen to invest in Sarawak.
203-1 103-2, 203-1, EU29
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 11 =====
Part 3 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
16
Sarawak Energy Berhad 17
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
• Collaborated with
Universiti Teknologi
Petronas (UTP) on a
Corrosion Study of
Bakun HEP
• Collaborated with
Swinburne University
of Technology Sarawak
on research into
characterisation and
development of solid
activator for binding of
Balingian Power Plant’s
fly ash into potential
construction materials
• Held annual SCIENCE
event to promote
students’ interest in
STEM
• Sarawak Energy
Research & Development
Laboratory opened
• Partnership with
PESTECH to research
containerised solar
hydrogen solution
• Collaboration with
Korean Partners on
Smart Microgrid System
to converge different
renewable energies for
efficient utilisation
• Collaboration with
University Technology
Melaka to identify the
best transition model
for stand-alone solar
systems once the grid
connection is available
• Signed a key term sheet
with PETRONAS for
Long-Term Electricity
Supply to provide 90MW
of electricity supply
to the Malaysia LNG
Complex at Tanjung
Kidurong, Bintulu
beginning March 2024
for a period of 20 years
• Signed a term sheet
agreement with Wenan
Steel (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
for a potential future
supply of 75MW to its
steel manufacturing
complex in Samalaju
Industrial Park
• Prepared technical
support for National
COVID-19 Immunisation
Programme
• Implemented Sarawak
Energy Industrial
Vaccination Programme
for employees,
contractors and family
members
• Employee contribution
to the State Disaster
Fund to help alleviate the
burden of those hardest
hit by the COVID-19
pandemic
• Achieved significant
progress on the technical
and stakeholder fronts
for the proposed
Mentarang Induk
Hydropower Project in
North Kalimantan
• Signed a Power
Exchange Agreement
and Interconnection
Agreement with Sabah
Electricity (SESB)
• Formed a consortium
with Sembcorp
Industries and SP
Group from Singapore
to explore the potential
of a Sarawak-Singapore
interconnection
• In recognition of 
Sarawak Energy’s digital
transformation, the 
Company received the:
o Malaysia Enterprise 
Innovation Award from 
the Asia IoT Business 
Platform for the second 
consecutive year in 
2021
o IT Modernisation Award
at the 2021 Innovation 
Awards by OutSystems
• Towards HSSE excellence,
Sarawak Energy was 
awarded:
o the Sarawak 
Chief Minister’s 
Environmental Award
o several awards at the 
Malaysian Society for 
Occupational Safety 
& Health (MSOSH) 
Awards 2021
o the Prime Minister’s 
Hibiscus Award (PMHA)
• Received the COVID 
Management Initiatives 
of the Year – Utilities 
Award at the Malaysia 
Management Excellence 
Awards 2021
• UNGCMYB Sustainability 
Performance Award 2021:
o SDG Ambition 
Benchmark 7 Award: 
Science-based 
emissions reduction 
in line with a 1.5°C 
pathway 
(Corporate Category)
o Sustainability Icon 
Award 
Datu Sharbini Suhaili 
Group Chief Executive 
Officer of Sarawak 
Energy Berhad
o Climate Action Fellow 
Mohamad Irwan Aman
Head of Sustainability
DRIVING  
RESEARCH AND 
INNOVATION IN 
THE ENERGY 
SECTOR
CAPTURING 
GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES
COVID-19 
INITIATIVES 
PROGRESSING 
OUR REGIONAL 
POWERHOUSE 
AMBITION
AWARDS AND 
ACCOLADES
• Introduced a sixth
Key Focus Area –
Commercial Excellence
• Established a working
committee to develop
a CE framework and
educate the workforce
• Developed a practitioner
learning module
Generation
• Following Digital
Power Plant blueprint
for Generation
Transformation by
improving workforce and
asset productivity while
mitigating risks
Transmission/Distribution 
• Improving transmission
and distribution
operations through smart
grid development
Retail 
• Investing in Smart
Retail transformation by
introducing customer
self-service mobile
application SEB cares,
online applications for
electricity supply, self-
service payment kiosks,
smart meters, mobile
meter management
system (MMMS), counter
appointment system and
e-bills
HSSE
• Introduced virtual reality
(VR) that replicates
actual conditions and
recreates various real-life
worst-case scenarios
• Deployed drone
technology for visual
inspection and
surveillance as well
as environmental
monitoring, which allows
us to determine surface
sea water colour and the
impact of waste water
discharges from power
plant operations
• Strengthened Project
Governance – Enhanced
SEPM was endorsed by
the GEC in July 2021
• Formation of State
Steering Committee
for land and wayleave
issues
• Block 2 of Tanjung
Kidurong Combined
Cycle Power Plant
achieved its first firing on
16 October 2021
• SAREF 2.0 organised, 
together with GO ESG 
and UNGCMYB
• Signed Grant Agreement 
with Swedfund 
International AB for 
Variable Renewable 
Energy Penetration Study
• Launched ‘Employee 
Action for the SDGs 
Playbook’ as a guide to 
help employees embed 
sustainability mindset and 
practices, contributing to 
the global SDG efforts at 
an individual level 
• Sarawak Energy 
and UNGCMYB’s 
SME-SDG Toolkit 
received international 
acknowledgement from 
SME Climate Hub, a 
global initiative of the We 
Mean Business Coalition, 
the Exponential Roadmap 
Initiative and the United 
Nations Race to Zero 
campaign in collaboration 
with Normative and the 
Net Zero team at Oxford 
University
• Rolled out mandatory
ABC Learning
Programme
• Sarawak Energy
Enterprise Risk
(SEERisk) System Phase
One roll-out
• Continued to run the
Sarawak Energy Integrity
Survey
• Implemented PPGs for
Gifts, Entertainment and
Hospitality (GEH)
• Implemented Enterprise
Information Management
(EIM) PPG
CULTIVATING 
COMMERCIAL 
ACUMEN
DIGITALISING OUR 
BUSINESS FOR 
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE
STEPPING UP 
PROJECT 
DELIVERY FOR 
SUSTAINABLE 
GROWTH 
A MORE 
SUSTAINABLE 
ENERGY FUTURE 
STRENGTHENING 
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
2021 YEAR IN REVIEW2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
103-2 103-2
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 12 =====
Part 4
18
Sarawak Energy Berhad 19
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
A century of progress is a tremendous achievement, and it 
gives me great pride to be the sitting Chairman of the Board as 
Sarawak Energy marks this centennial milestone. Having served 
as Chairman since 2005, I have been privileged to witness a 
significant part of Sarawak Energy’s transformation journey first-
hand. 
We must acknowledge that our existence today is only possible 
because of the trust of the government and people of Sarawak in 
us, and we truly appreciate this. In honour of this trust, Sarawak 
Energy’s leadership and employees have worked hard to deliver 
and stay relevant through agile transformation, especially in recent 
rapidly changing times. 
The Company’s clear strategic direction and key focus areas have 
harnessed the innate potential of Sarawak’s energy resources and 
people while maintaining a focus on exceptional delivery through 
high performance and a diverse and inclusive corporate culture. 
This is underpinned by systematic measures, financial prudence 
and a commitment to enhancing operational excellence and 
corporate governance.
Driven by a progressive culture that is committed to continuous 
improvement with a growing external focus, Sarawak Energy 
continued to record sustainable growth while delivering real 
stakeholder value and exceptional performance in 2021, delivering 
on most of what we promised despite the challenging business 
landscape caused by the ongoing COVID-19 situation. 
Sarawak Energy is advancing further towards 
powering the sustainable growth and prosperity of 
Sarawak by sharing our hydropower expertise 
and pursuing regional interconnections with 
our neighbours to deliver a more prosperous 
and sustainable energy future for Southeast 
Asia. We are in a good position to enter 
a new century of growth as we power 
Sarawak and beyond.
102-2, 102-6, 102-11, 102-14, 102-16, 103-2 102-2, 102-11, 102-12, 102-14, 102-15, 103-2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Over the last century, Sarawak Energy has evolved and transformed significantly 
from a small utility in a government department reliant on imported fossil fuels to 
Malaysia’s largest renewable energy developer. 
 Our Past 
and Present 
Reconnecting with our history shows us how we have evolved with the times and has 
important implications for our work going forward. Looking back at the last century, we can 
say that with every decade, we have achieved remarkable milestones. 
 
In line with our vision and commitment to UN SDG No. 7 to ensure access to affordable, 
reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, we have almost met our target of achieving 
full electrification for Sarawak by 2025.
Our customer base has grown over the years to 740,000 and Sarawak Energy has also 
become the largest employer of professional Sarawak talent.
POWERING THE FUTURE ENERGY 
LANDSCAPE
As countries and corporations come together 
to work towards addressing climate change 
while meeting their respective development 
goals, there has been a greater focus on 
shifting towards renewables and accelerating 
the energy transition. This change has 
been reflected in ASEAN, with 82% of new 
capacity in the region being from renewable 
sources in 2020.
Sarawak Energy has and will continue to 
contribute to this regional energy transition 
by investing in renewable energy with 
hydropower as the foundation of our growth 
over the next 100 years. In this respect, 
Sarawak Energy can be seen to be ahead of 
the sustainable energy development curve.
Our generation mix, which was 100% 
fossil fuel when we began in the 1920s and 
as recently as the early 1980s, is today 
predominantly renewable hydropower 
with a growing percentage of low carbon 
Joining a global movement of leading companies  
in aligning our business with the Paris Agreement to 
limit global temperature rise to
1.5°C by 2030
As we grew, we stayed focused on our mission to support the government of Sarawak and now provide reliable and affordable electricity 
for almost all of Sarawak’s three million people, with a growing domestic and export customer base. Building on the strong foundation 
and legacy of our predecessors, the last decade has seen a significant change in our journey as we developed our renewable energy 
resources to power Sarawak’s socio-economic development as well as progress our ambition of becoming a regional powerhouse.
alternatives in our mix through solar, smaller 
hydro and floating solar.
Many of our achievements have been a 
direct result of SCORE, which was launched 
in 2008. In the past decade, Sarawak Energy 
has experienced accelerated growth and 
is playing an increasingly important role in 
realising Sarawak’s sustainable development 
and vision of achieving high-income status.
I am confident we will see further progress 
under the Post COVID-19 Development 
Strategy (PCDS) launched by the Government 
of Sarawak this year. This strategy is 
anchored on, among others, renewable 
energy development and deployment. 
The Sarawak Government has entrusted 
us to advance our sustainability goals and 
create a clean and inclusive energy future. 
As part of this trust, we are also spearheading 
ground-breaking research into green 
hydrogen production and its application in a 
tropical environment. Through our focus on 
hydropower, we are now Malaysia’s largest 
renewable energy developer and provider 
and amongst the largest in Southeast Asia.
We are focused on pursuing innovative 
solutions and technologies to diversify 
the application of renewable energy, as 
exemplified by our exploration into green 
hydrogen and floating solar.
Our 108MW Batang Ai Hydroelectric Plant, commissioned in 1985, marked the beginning of Sarawak’s renewable hydropower development journey.
DATUK AMAR ABDUL  
HAMED SEPAWI
Chair
man
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 17 =====
Part 4
28
Sarawak Energy Berhad 29
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
By emphasising good governance, we preserve our reputation as 
a trusted brand in Sarawak and beyond, ensuring all stakeholders 
remain confident in our ability to deliver in an ethical, corruption-free 
manner.
This also sustains the value created by our predecessors, powering 
our future growth while protecting the Company and its people from 
corporate as well as personal liability.
SENIOR LEADERSHIP PROGRESSION
To better reflect the increasing significance of information & 
communications technology and HSSE in our business, Sim Ko Sin 
and Marconi Madai progressed from Vice Presidents to Senior Vice 
Presidents in their respective roles. They assumed these roles on 
1 January 2021.
DRIVING REGIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION 
Sarawak Energy has been consistently ahead of the curve in 
aligning with global energy transition and sustainability efforts. 
We are aligned with international best practices in sustainable and 
renewable energy development, incorporating relevant guidelines 
and policies into our operations. 
As a renewable energy developer, we engage in partnerships, 
thought leadership campaigns and R&D, as well as studies, to 
accelerate energy transition in the region.
THE NEXT 100 YEARS
With a long history of agility and evolution, Sarawak Energy’s people 
have consistently risen to the occasion and embraced change, 
learning new skills, processes, technologies and ways of working 
to proactively adapt to an ever-changing working environment.
As we embark on another 100 years of powering Sarawak, we 
will continue investing in our people to keep this tradition of 
readiness, flexibility and innovation alive. We will provide platforms 
and programmes for continuous learning and self-development, 
ensuring our employees can realise their full potential in the 
workplace.
STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Sarawak Energy is committed to maintaining a progressive and high 
performance corporate culture, including zero tolerance for unethical 
conduct, fraud and corruption.
 
In line with this, we have launched a suite of governance initiatives and 
programmes to strengthen Sarawak Energy’s culture of compliance.
 
These are supplemented by the implementation of relevant policies, 
procedures and guidelines (PPGs) that promote consistency across 
the organisation, ensuring everyone who works with Sarawak Energy 
has a clear understanding of good ethics and good corporate 
governance practices.
CLOSING
As with our past successes, our future plans can only be realised 
with the support of our government, owners and stakeholders, 
as well as the dedication and commitment of our staff. This will 
continue to drive us closer to realising our aspiration of becoming 
a regional powerhouse and leading energy utility in Southeast Asia 
as we complete our mission to fully light up Sarawak.
Once again, thank you to Sarawak Energy’s past leaders and staff 
for leaving behind a strong legacy to build on for the betterment of 
Sarawak and the region at large. 
While we do not know what the future holds, I believe in 
Sarawak Energy’s ability to grow even further. Our experiences 
and successes in the past decade in the face of unprecedented 
challenges give me confidence in our ability to continue thriving no 
matter the circumstances. 
DATU HAJI SHARBINI SUHAILI
Group Chief Executive Officer
Sarawak Energy is committed to maintaining a progressive and high performance corporate culture , 
including Zero Tolerance for unethical conduct, fraud and corruption .
Significant progress has been made on 
the technical and stakeholder fronts 
regarding the proposed 1,375MW 
Mentarang Induk Hydroelectric Project 
in Northern Kalimantan.
Our renewable hydropower 
development contributes
3,452MW to Malaysia’s 
overall hydropower installed capacity 
and is key to achieving Malaysia’s 
energy transition target of 
31% of renewable energy in 
our national installed capacity mix 
by 2025
With the rapid introduction of new technologies and processes 
every day, it is imperative for our people to develop 21st-century 
skill sets.
Innovation and growth will remain the cornerstones of Sarawak 
Energy, leading us towards new horizons in the century to come 
and leaving a legacy of excellence for future generations of 
Sarawak Energy leaders and employees.
PROGRESSING THE REGIONAL POWERHOUSE ASPIRATION
We are progressing our regional powerhouse aspiration by 
advancing renewable hydropower development and positioning 
Sarawak as the Battery of ASEAN. To achieve this, our focus is 
to establish the Borneo Grid by pursuing interconnections with 
regional neighbours before expanding to the rest of ASEAN.
Renewable hydropower development has created opportunities for 
Sarawak to develop transmission interconnections with Bornean 
neighbours, with our first power export to West Kalimantan being 
commissioned in 2016. This initial success has demonstrated the 
benefits of interconnections, leading to the potential implementation 
of similar bilateral interconnection projects to complete the Borneo 
Grid.
102-2, 102-11, 102-15102-2, 102-11
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 42 =====
Part 7 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE
78
Sarawak Energy Berhad 79
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
DELIVERING  
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 
DELIVERING  
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
SUSTAINABLE RENEWABLE HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT 
Sarawak Energy’s hydropower dams are designed and constructed according to stringent 
guidelines set by the International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD) to ensure that 
dams are built and operated safely, efficiently and economically and are environmentally 
sustainable and socially equitable. Our dams also adopt guidelines set by the Hydropower 
Sustainability Assessment Protocol (HSAP) of the International Hydropower Association. 
 
The HSAP is a globally recognised framework used to holistically assess hydropower 
projects against social, environmental, technical and economic considerations. Sarawak 
Energy has adopted HSAP within our processes and has implemented our internal HSAP 
governing structure since 2014. 
Customers and stakeholders have much higher expectations 
and standards of energy security and sustainability today, 
especially in relation to climate change and affordability. 
With the world turning to sustainability and renewables as 
the drivers for post-COVID-19 recovery, and as Malaysia’s 
largest renewable energy developer, our prospects have 
strengthened further. 
In line with global energy transition trends, renewable hydropower will continue to be a 
key contributor to Sarawak’s sustainable growth, with renewable hydropower remaining 
dominant in our generation mix as we diversify by incorporating a higher percentage of 
alternative energy. 
BALEH HEP
The 1,285MW Baleh  HEP 
is Sarawak Energy’s second 
hydropower  development 
project under the SCORE 
initiative after  Murum HEP 
and will be the largest HEP 
developed by  the Company 
once completed.
With the full commissioning of Baleh 
HEP expected in 2027, the surrounding 
communities stand to benefit from 
adjacent infrastructure development and 
sustainable livelihood programmes such 
as capability building, entrepreneurial 
development, agriculture, indigenous 
fisheries, education and more. 
 
Last year, we achieved a critical milestone 
at Baleh HEP with the completion of the 
diversion tunnel and the closing of the 
Baleh River, enabling us to proceed with 
the construction of the main dam this 
year. By November, we reached 28% 
project completion.
 
To provide a clear and transparent 
framework to address grievances 
related to the project, we have in place 
a grievance mechanism to ensure we 
effectively and proactively manage 
concerns on the ground. The grievances 
can be submitted online or physically. 
The grievance mechanism aims to ensure 
comments, feedback and grievances 
are addressed in a fair, transparent and 
timely manner. 
Scan here  to view the Baleh 
HEP Grievance Mechanism
Sarawak Energy aims to maximise the positive impacts of our operations 
and projects on the community. This includes increasing local content and 
developing local talents. 
Approximately 3,000 jobs will be created at the peak of Baleh HEP’s 
development and we are prioritising locally sourced manpower 
to fill the positions. Currently, 45% of Baleh HEP’s manpower is 
local, and we are increasing that number by training workers in the 
various skills needed for the project. 
In our ongoing efforts to deliver benefits to our project-affected 
community through community development initiatives, 10 youths 
who have completed their training under the Baleh Skills Training 
programme have started their careers with our project partner, 
China Gezhouba Group Co. Ltd. (CGGC). To further provide career 
opportunities to the communities in the area, CGGC has also set 
up an office in Kapit to recruit local talents for the project. 
MENTARANG INDUK HEP
Sarawak Energy, together with PT Kayan Patria Pratama (PT KPP), 
through our joint venture (JV) company, PT Kayan Hydropower 
Nusantara (PT KHN), is progressing efforts to realise the proposed 
Mentarang Induk HEP (MIHEP). This proposed hydropower 
development is located 35 kilometres upstream of Kota Malinau 
in Indonesia’s Northern Province of Kalimantan (KALTARA). The 
1,375MW HEP is geared towards providing affordable, reliable 
and sustainable energy to support Indonesia’s National Strategic 
Project, Kawasan Industri dan Pelabuhan Internasional (KIPI) Tanah 
Kuning Green Energy Park, in Bulungan Regency, North Kalimantan.
The ground-breaking event for KIPI Tanah Kuning was graced by the 
President of Indonesia on 21 December. During the event, Sarawak 
Energy’s JV company, PT KHN, signed a Heads of Agreement with 
PT Kalimantan Energi Lestari (PT KELi) to supply green energy from 
MIHEP to KIPI Tanah Kuning through PT KELi.
The project achieved significant progress this year on both the 
technical and stakeholder fronts, with strong support from the 
communities surrounding the project area in KALTARA, the Provincial 
Government and the Sarawak Government. 
Key milestones in MIHEP’s preparations in 2021:
• Completion of Field Study for the Environment and Social 
Impact Assessment and Analisis Dampak Lingkungan (AMDAL), 
Indonesia’s Environmental Impact Assessment, which experienced 
nine months’ delay due to COVID-19 travel restrictions. The AMDAL 
document was submitted to the Indonesian Ministry of Environment 
and Forestry in November for assessment.
• Completion of the pre-engineering works in September.
• Market Briefing and Pre-Qualification Exercise for MIHEP’s Main 
Works Packages (Main Civil and Electrical and Mechanical).
• Contract signing with PLN Enjiniring for transmission system design 
consultancy.
• Completion of Independent Project Analysis (IPA) in September.
• First Independent Hydropower Environment Social and Governance 
Assessment during project preparation for early identification 
of areas for improvement to ensure sustainable hydropower 
development.
MIHEP is set to reach Final Investment Decision by early 2023. Once 
realised, this will be our first international project and a significant 
milestone for Sarawak Energy towards becoming a r
egional 
powerhouse in Southeast Asia. 
As part of our commitment to sustainable hydropower 
development, we are submitting MIHEP for certification under the 
Hydropower Sustainability Standard during construction to ensure 
compliance with the Hydropower Sustainability Assessment 
Protocol’s strict criteria.
102-12, 102-16, 102-43, 103-2, 203-1 102-12, 102-16, 103-2, 203-1
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 43 =====
Part 7 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE
80
Sarawak Energy Berhad 81
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
DELIVERING  
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
DELIVERING  
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT 
In advancing Sarawak Energy’s commitment to climate action, we continue to explore alternative energy sources to further decarbonise our 
energy system and support the diverse application of other renewables. 
Currently, alternative energy contributes about 1% to Sarawak’s generation mix and we aim to increase the percentage to 4% with large-scale 
solar integration by 2030. Our efforts are geared towards our support for a net zero carbon emissions future, in line with COP26 goals. 
FLOATING SOLAR 
Sarawak Energy is also developing a floating solar facility at the 
reservoir at Batang Ai HEP . The 50MW solar farm, once commissioned 
in 2023, is expected to offset about 52 kilotonnes of carbon emissions 
annually, further decarbonising Sarawak’s power system.  
 
This will be Sarawak’s first major generation synergising hydro and 
solar, utilising floating solar farm technology.
 
Batang Ai’s floating solar will pave the way for similar projects at other 
hydropower reservoirs, further contributing to our aim of having 4% 
large-scale solar in our generation mix by 2030.
Learn more  about how 
Sarawak Energy is spearheading 
this green energy technology 
research
Sarawak’s ample water supply and 
affordable renewable power give us an 
advantage in advancing green hydrogen as 
a source of clean energy.
The Sarawak Government embarked on hydrogen fuel cell 
application research in 2017 and Sarawak Energy was entrusted 
with spearheading hydrogen research as a potential energy source. 
As a result, Southeast Asia’s first Integrated Hydrogen Production 
Plant and Refuelling Station was built and commissioned in 2019. 
 
This pilot facility laid the foundation for research into the 
commercial viability of a hydrogen economy for Sarawak through 
the production, delivery, storage and utilisation of this “fuel of 
the future”, particularly in a tropical environment. The plant also 
supports research into the development of an emissions-free 
transportation sector and powers Malaysia’s first hydrogen-
powered public buses in Kuching. 
 
We are collaborating with like-minded organisations to explore 
the feasibility of large-scale hydrogen production in Sarawak for 
export, in line with Sarawak’s ambition to become a regional hub 
for hydrogen production. 
Hydrogen Fuel Cell Research
REINFORCING SARAWAK’S POWER SYSTEM 
Sarawak Energy is prioritising the reinforcement of our network 
system to deliver reliable supply to customers and in the long-term 
address supply interruption. 
In Southern Sarawak, the Tondong Static Synchronous 
Compensator is targeted for commercial operation in December 
2022. It will provide dynamic voltage support to the main state 
grid, enhancing grid supply stability, especially for the Kuching grid 
system.
The Sejingkat Battery Energy Storage System is expected to be 
commercially operational in Q3 2023. It will support the Kuching 
grid through a peak shaving application and will provide spinning 
reserve to capitalise on Tanjung Kidurong CCPP’s available 
capacity.
Kuching Network Reinforcement is scheduled to be commissioned 
by Q4 2025 to cater for the rapid growth in the organic and 
industrial load in Kuching, including Samajaya. A new Tg. Bako 
275/132/33kV substation near to Samajaya industrial area will be 
developed and supply electricity via a new 275kV transmission 
line from the new Entinggan B 275kV Substation. The Tg. Bako 
275/132/33kV substation will serve as a new bulk supply injection 
point to strengthen Kuching’s transmission network and support 
Sejingkat Power Plant’s retirement.
To reinforce electricity supply in Lundu and Sematan up to Telok 
Melano, over RM223 million worth of new facilities and installations 
are being invested to reinforce the electricity network system and 
some of these projects have already reached completion. The 
residents in these areas are currently being supplied electricity 
through very long feeder lines that are susceptible to interference 
and faults. 
We are also enhancing our distribution network through several 
projects which are ongoing. In 2021, the Asajaya 33/11kV Substation 
has been completed to improve the supply reliability at Asajaya and 
its surrounding areas. Meanwhile, under the Rural Electrification 
Scheme (RES), we have completed and commissioned 33/11kV 
substations in Julau, Pakan, Nanga Ngungun, Dalat, Selirik and 
Sangan while awaiting the completion of the ongoing Medium 
Voltage Covered Conductor (MVCC) Project. 
Sarawak Energy is working on completing the Tondong EHV – Bau 
33/11kV substation which is expected to commission next year. 
The underground cable was laid in 2021. With the substation’s 
completion, the supply in Bau, Batu Kitang Water Treatment Plant, 
Lundu and Sematan will be improved significantly. The underground 
cable works from Eastwood EHV to Marina 33/11kV Substation and 
Town 33/11kV Sub cable laying work is also expected to complete 
in 2022. Both circuits to Marina 33/11kV and Town 33/11kV will 
further improve supply reality in Miri town and eliminate system 
constraints in Miri, further reducing the network dependencies on 
Pujut Power station.
102-15, 103-2 103-2, 203-1
Eastwood 33/11kV SubstationKanowit 33/11kV Substation  
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 50 =====
STRATEGY
95
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
Part 8 ENHANCING OUR COMMITMENT TO CLIMATE ACTION94
Sarawak Energy Berhad
102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47, 102-49204-1, 305-4, EU29
SUSTAINABILITY KEY HIGHLIGHTS MATERIALITY ISSUES
PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
Sarawak Energy is committed to providing reliable and renewable energy for the people of Sarawak in the long term. We are always 
seeking opportunities for long-term sustainable growth to create value and positive impacts for our stakeholders and the region. As we 
continue to generate financial growth, we strive to conserve natural resources and uplift our society. Above all, we endeavour to meet the 
region’s energy needs and achieve prosperity for Sarawak. To ensure sustainable growth, we measure our performance against Economic, 
Environment and Social, the key pillars of sustainability, as presented in the following infographics: 
Material issues are sustainability matters that are most significant to our stakeholders and our business. Knowing our material issues 
will allow us to identify the opportunities and mitigate the risks of each material issue. Our material issues are identified through various 
methods such as thought leader perspectives, surveys and stakeholder feedback, as well as social media coverage. 
In 2017, we conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment guided by GRI Standards and identified 32 material issues according to 
Sarawak Energy’s Economic, Environment and Social impacts. 
2021 Highlights
Notes:
1 These main grid CO2 emissions intensity, net energy generated and total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian 
companies’ data have been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
* These main grid CO2 emissions intensity, net energy generated and total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian 
companies’ data have been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
2020 2021
Total Electricity Sales (GWh)  
- 28,590 GWh
26,211
52,308
30.15%
1,151,800
1
21,6061
78
0.2031
33.69%
1,397,036*
23,172*
85
0.198*
28,590
166,574
2020 2021
Total Hours of Training (Hours) 
- 166,574 hrs
2020 2021
Operating Expenses Ratio (%) 
- 33.69%
2020 2021
Tenders Awarded to Local 
Sarawakian Companies 
(RM’000) - RM1,397,036 *
2020
2020
2021
2021
Renewable Energy Generated 
(GWh) - Main Grid: 
23,172 GWh *
SAIDI – Distribution 
(Minutes per Customer) 
- 85
2020 2021
Emissions Intensity - Main Grid 
(tCO2eq/MWh) 
- 0.198 tCO 2eq/MWh*
 Reviewing and updating material 
issues that are in line with any 
development in:
• Business landscape
• Internal policies
• Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
• Local and global trends
• Regulatory requirements
• Stakeholder feedback
Prioritising and engaging with 
stakeholders through continuous 
dialogue for insights to meet the 
needs of stakeholders and develop 
strategies and initiatives
Identifying material issues before 
prioritising the issues that are in line 
with the Company’s business needs
Review of Material Issues
 Stakeholder Engagement
 Prioritising Material Issues
(+9%)
(+218%)
(+12%)
(+21%)
(+7%)
(+9%)
(-2%)
First utility company in 
the country to secure a
100 million
sustainability-linked 
loan (SLL) in the form 
of a revolving credit 
facility - a loan linked to 
measurable sustainability 
performance targets
- reaffirms Sarawak 
Energy’s commitment to 
keep its grid emissions 
intensity in alignment with 
the Paris Agreement and 
light up 100% of Sarawak 
by 2025
Our materiality matrix is shown below:
Economic Environmental Social
Lower Medium Higher
Lower Medium Higher
Availability & 
Reliability
System Efficiency
Market Presence
Economic 
Performance
Electricity Exports
Procurement
Practices
Indirect Economic
Performance
Ethics and Integrity
Research & 
Development
Demand Side
Management
Effluent &
Waste
Water
Emissions
Materials
Energy
Biodiversity
Customer Privacy
Public Policy
Disaster/Emergency Planning Response
Environmental 
Compliance
Non-discrimination
Indigenous Rights
Supplier Assessment for 
Labour Practices
Customer Health
& Safety
Socioeconomic
Compliance Training & 
Education
Labour/
Management Relations
Employment
Customer Service
and Satisfaction
Local
Communities Occupational
Health & Safety
Access
Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions
Significance of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 52 =====
Part 9 STRATEGY STRATEGY
98
Sarawak Energy Berhad 99
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
301-1, 304-1, 304-2102-8, 204-1
8 - Decent Work & Economic Growth 6 - Clean Water and Sanitation
2011 2021
Electricity Sales/ GDP 1
(%) 
2011 2021
Tax Paid to Government 
(RM’Mil)
Tenders Awarded to Local 
Sarawakian Companies 
(RM’000)
20112011 20212021
Total Number of Employees 
(+122%) (+186%) (+183%)
2011 2021
Total Number of Women in 
Our Workforce 
2011 2021
Total Training Hours Provided Electricity Sales/ Number of 
Employees (GWh/ Staff) 
2011 2021
(+95%) (+231%) (+179%)
(+54%)
2014 2021
Water Volume Regulated 
by Hydropower Plants for 
Electricity Generation 
(million m 3) 
15 - Life on Land
• Supported the Heart of Borneo Initiative 
• Baleh National Park gazetted 
• Conducted various workshops on watershed management 
• Nurtured the Flora Conservation Garden
• Enrichment Planting at Batang Ai Dam for Carbon Sequestration 
17 - Partnerships for the Goals
• Partnership for conservation and protection of Heart of Borneo areas 
• Collaboration with government agencies, NGOs such as WWF and universities in developing Integrated Catchment Management Policy, 
Procedures, Guidelines and Plan 
• Collaboration with local universities on our Environmental Sustainability Programme 
• Partnership with IHA, UNGC Network Malaysia & Brunei and GRI in championing Sustainability global agenda in local context 
We are a member of the state’s Integrated Watershed Management Committee that supports and contributes to the development of state 
policy, procedures and guidelines for Integrated Watershed Management. 
2014 2021
Water Intake Intensity by 
Thermal Plants by Source for 
Cooling Process – Municipal 
Water (m3/MWh)
Water Intake Intensity by 
Thermal Plants by Source for 
Cooling Process – Sea Water 
or Other Natural Water Sources 
(m3/MWh)
20142014 20212021
Water Volume Intensity 
Regulated by Hydropower 
Plants for Electricity Generation 
(m3/MWh) 
(+2,326%) (-50%) (-52%) (+869%)
Notes:
1 GDP for State of Sarawak in 2021 based on current prices.
* This total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies’ data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 
178-182.
INTERNALISING
THE GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA
INTERNALISING  
THE GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA
1.67 44.40
634
50,275.00
1.88
493.48
3,529
2,188.00
0.16 68.65
234.77
3.70
127.20
1,235
166,573.86
5.25
1,397.04*
5,442
53,075.13*
0.08
2,274.27
33.10
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 53 =====
Part 9 STRATEGY STRATEGY
100
Sarawak Energy Berhad 101
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-3, 204-1, 305-4, 401-1, EU26102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 301-1, 303-3
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE
We continuously deliver returns and create positive impacts throughout our value chain by producing renewable energy with local 
resources. We strive to champion climate action and safeguard the interest of our stakeholders to achieve prosperity for Sarawak and 
sustainability for our business and communities, as well as the environment. 
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE
Note:
*  These fuel consumption, net energy generated, annual water volume for electricity generation and total 
water withdrawn by source data have been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance 
Report on pages 178-182.
POWERING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
Input
Natural Gas
32,806,349.50 mmBtu*
Hydro – Water Volume 
Regulated for Electricity 
Generation:
53,075.13  million m 3*
Coal
2,940,286.82  tonnes*
SAFEGUARDING NATURAL RESOURCES
Grid Emissions Intensity  
(Main Grid)
0.198 tCO2eq/MWh*
CONTRIBUTING TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Operating Expenses Ratio
34%
Economic Value Retained
(RM Million)
RM2,441*
Payments to the 
Government
(RM Million)
RM127
Employee Remuneration
(RM Million)
RM596
Electricity Sales
28,590 GWh
Output
GENERATING POSITIVE IMPACTS
Return on Assets  
(%)
2.2
Total Assets 
(RM Million)
RM37,697
Operating Costs
(RM Million)
RM2,073
Tenders Awarded to 
Local Sarawakian 
Companies
(RM Million)
RM1,397*
Sarawak’s Rural 
Electrification 
Coverage
(%)
97%*
Benefitted at least
135,490 rural
households since
2009
NURTURING OUR WORKFORCE
HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT 
Total Training Hours
166,574 hrs
Employee New Hires
163
Investors
Employees
Society at 
Large
VALUE CREATION PROCESS
Contributing to
Economic 
Development
Generating
Positive 
Impacts
Safeguarding 
Natural
Resources
Nurturing
Our Workforce
4
3
2
1
KEY TRENDS
We put local resources and the production of clean energy fi rst to       unlock returns throughout our value chain.
SDG 15
SDG 07
SDG 08
SDG 06
SDG 17
SDG 13
VALUE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE
Electricity Generated & Fuel Consumption by Type:
Hydro
23,171.59  GWh*
(77%) (11%) (12%)
Natural Gas
3,279.48  GWh*
Coal
3,712.31  GWh*
Total Workforce (People):
+4.51%
2020
2021 5,442
5,207
2% (Decreased from 2020)
Note:
* These main grid CO 2 emissions intensity, economic value retained, total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies and rural electrification coverage 
data have been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Menara Sarawak Energy
Thermal – Water Utilisation
1,021 million m 3*
(Cooling process)
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 54 =====
Part 9 STRATEGY STRATEGY
102
Sarawak Energy Berhad 103
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
102-12, 102-15, 103-2, 203-1102-2, 102-12, 102-15, 103-2, 203-1, 305-4
GLOBAL TRENDS TOWARDS NET ZERO
VISION & GLOBAL TRENDS TOWARDS NET ZERO
In order to accelerate climate action, we aligned our emissions reduction efforts and low carbon economy initiatives with the latest climate 
action trends across all levels.
 Pursue efforts to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-
industrial levels – reducing global CO 2 emissions by 45% by 2030 
relative to the 2010 level and to net zero around mid-century
 Calls upon Parties to accelerate the development, deployment and 
dissemination of technologies, and the adoption of policies to:
• Transition towards low-emission energy systems
• Rapidly scale up the deployment of clean power generation and 
energy efficiency measures
Global – Net Zero
 Communicating their respective Nationally Determined Contributions 
(NDC) to reflect the highest possible ambitions and facilitate the purpose 
of the contributions, which are in line with the respective UNFCCC 
decisions
 Promoting sustainable management of forests, including the 
implementation of UNFCCC decisions on reducing emissions from 
deforestation and forest degradation, as well as the role of conservation, 
sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon 
stocks in developing countries
ASEAN
 Malaysia intends to reduce its economy-wide carbon intensity (against 
GDP) to 45% in 2030 compared to the 2005 level. The updated Nationally 
Determined Contribution (NDC) submitted to UNFCCC in July 2021 
includes the following increased ambitions:
• The 45% of carbon intensity reduction is unconditional;
• This target is an increase of 10% from the earlier submission; and
• The GHG coverage is expanded to seven greenhouse gases 
(GHG): Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), 
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), Sulphur 
hexafluoride (SF6) and Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3).
 In the 12th Malaysia Plan, outlined selected key performance indicators that 
aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
• Aspires to become a Net Zero nation by 2050
Malaysia
Sarawak, in its Post COVID-19 Development Strategy 2030 (PCDS 2030), has highlighted its development targets and strategies towards its 2030 goals in prioritising environmental sustainability and aligning its development path with Malaysia’s commitment to the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), among others:
Sarawak
Sarawak Energy’s efforts in alignment with the state, Malaysian, ASEAN and global commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement, the aim of which is to keep global warming well below 2°C, preferably at 1.5°C, compared to pre-industrial levels:
Sarawak Energy
 Welcoming cross-ASEAN pillar cooperation; among others, the development 
of the ASEAN Taxonomy for Sustainable Finance (ASEAN Taxonomy)
• Accelerate efforts to the phasedown of unabated coal power and phase-
out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies
• Provide targeted support to the most vulnerable, in line with national 
circumstances and in support of a just transition
 Nations reach new agreements for market mechanisms, supporting the 
transfer of emissions reductions between countries while incentivising 
the private sector to invest in climate-friendly solutions
• In fulfilling Malaysia’s commitment to the Paris Agreement of the UNFCCC 
to reduce up to 45% GHG emissions intensity to GDP by 2030 based 
on emissions intensity in 2005, the focus will be on developing enabling 
instruments for climate action, including carbon pricing, such as carbon tax 
and the Emissions Trading Scheme
• 31% Renewable Energy of Total Installed Capacity by 2025
• The private sector will be encouraged to invest in advancing next 
generation vehicles, technologies and supporting infrastructure, such 
as energy-efficient, hydrogen-powered and electric vehicles and their 
charging stations
• Formulating a Comprehensive National Energy Policy – the prospect of 
future growth related to energy, particularly the potential of new energy 
from clean and sustainable sources including hydrogen, will be explored
Renewable Energy Sector
 Stimulate Sarawak’s hydrogen economy by 
2030
 Promote & increase private sector 
participation in renewable energy by 2030, 
e.g. Pilot Batang Ai floating solar project, & 
establish large scale solar (LLS) IPPs
Renewable Energy Sector
 Sarawak Energy’s Batang Ai 50 MW floating 
solar is the first major hybrid of hydro and solar 
in Sarawak 
 Utilises floating solar farm technology targeted 
at minimising land usage and project footprint 
 Aiming to have 4% large scale solar in Sarawak 
Energy’s generation mix by 2030
 Sarawak Energy aims to attain sustainable 
growth and prosperity by becoming a Southeast 
Asian powerhouse to provide the region with 
affordable and reliable renewable energy
 Since 2016, we have been exporting 
predominantly renewable electricity to West 
Kalimantan (Indonesia) and in the near future, 
we will commence power export to Sabah. We 
eventually aim to materialise the Borneo Grid 
and become the ‘Battery of ASEAN’
Transport Sector
 Sarawak Energy is the first company in Sarawak to incorporate electric and 
hydrogen fuel cell vehicles into its corporate fleet (as pilot projects) 
 Sarawak Energy inked a memorandum of understanding with PETRONAS to 
jointly explore the potential of hydrogen as an energy source 
 Shared ambition to scale up and venture into energy export with hydrogen 
as an energy carrier to meet global clean energy demand and position 
Sarawak as the hub for the hydrogen value chain
Innovation
 Sarawak Energy has embarked on a digital 
transformation and modernisation journey to 
enable the Company to achieve its ambition of 
becoming a digital utility by 2025 and advance 
us towards our Vision 2022 regional powerhouse 
aspirations. Five strategic pillars were identified 
to empower the Company’s digitalisation 
journey, including: 
• A robust and fit-for-purpose digital 
foundation 
• Data as strategic assets 
• A modernised, new way of working 
• Smart business 
• Staying ahead of the curve
Energy Generation & Usage
 Maintain at least 60% electricity generation 
mix from hydro
Decarbonisation
 12.5 mil tonnes of CO 2 avoidance from 
renewable energy initiatives
Decarbonisation
 Sarawak Energy’s Main Grid emissions 
intensity 2021 – 0.198 tCO 2eq/ MWh*,  
a 72% reduction from 2011
 In 2021, Sarawak Energy began preparations 
to have its emissions reduction target 
certified by SBTi in year 2022
Energy Generation & Usage
 Sarawak Energy’s electricity generation mix 
2021 (77% from hydro)
Innovation
 6% reduction of CO 2 emissions through digital solutions
Transport Sector
 Support growth of 300 MW RE generation for green hydrogen production 
 Target reduction by 15% carbon emissions by year 2030 
 Promote electric vehicles (i.e. battery & fuel cell EVs) by 2030 - reducing 
CO2 footprint by displacing 0.6 million tonnes of CO 2 / year 
 EV penetration target: 
• 20% electric cars 
• 50% e-bikes
Note:
* This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178 - 182.
GLOBAL TRENDS TOWARDS NET ZERO
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 56 =====
Part 9 STRATEGY STRATEGY
106
Sarawak Energy Berhad 107
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-2, 103-3, 305-4103-1, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5
Climate change continues to be one of the major challenges faced by many industries due to extreme weather conditions that can disrupt 
business operations and cause major financial losses. As a responsible corporate organisation with sustainability at its core, Sarawak Energy 
strives to build business resilience through innovative solutions. Our venture into digitalisation and the use of hydropower as our source of 
renewable energy enables us to move closer to our targets for Sarawak’s sustainability, economy and social development. 
Our focus on hydropower as a renewable energy source has helped to provide clean, reliable and affordable energy for Sarawak. In 2021, 
the renewable energy share in Sarawak’s generation mix continued to grow to 23,172 GWh* from 1,248 GWh in 2011. This helped to lower 
Sarawak’s main grid CO2 emissions intensity by 72%, which was 78% lower than the global average of 450 gCO2eq/kWh. 
CLIMATE ACTION STEWARDSHIP 
THROUGH SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 
0.198 tCO 2eq/
MWh*
Emissions Intensity 
(Main Grid) 
0.600 tCO 2eq/
MWh*
Emissions Intensity 
(Northern Grid) 
5.98 million 
tCO2eq
Total CO2 Emissions 
(Main Grid)
15,179 tCO 2
Total CO2 
Reduction from 
Clean Development 
Mechanism Projects 
Notes:
1 Emissions in CO 2eq include Direct Scope 1 emissions from CO 2, CH4 and N2O.
* These main grid CO 2 emissions intensity and northern grid CO 2 emissions intensity data have been assured by a third party. Read the Assurance Report on 
pages 178-182.
Murum HEP.
Note:
* This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
CLIMATE ACTION STEWARDSHIP 
THROUGH SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
Notes:
1  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
2  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2018.
3  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2017.
4  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2016.
5  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2015.
6  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2014.
*  This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Scope 1 Main Grid CO 2 Emissions Intensity within the 2 °C and 1.5 °C Targets in Accordance with the Paris Agreement
tCO2eq/MWh
0.800
0.700
0.600
0.500
0.400
0.300
0.200
0.100
0.000
2010 2012 2014 2016 20182011 2013 2015 2017 2019 20212020
0.724
0.698
0.541
0.430
0.3356
0.3165
0.2374
0.2133
0.1932
0.2221
0.2031
0.198*
2.0°C target
0.35 tCO 2eq/
MWh
1.5°C target
0.15 tCO 2eq/
MWh
MEETING THE PARIS AGREEMENT
Sarawak Energy is committed to the Paris Agreement made at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which aims to 
substantially limit global temperature rise to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels.
Since 2014, our Scope 1 Main Grid CO 2 emissions intensity has already been achieved and is within the 2 °C and 1.5°C targets in accordance 
with the Paris Agreement. Moving forward, we are committed to setting a science-based emissions reduction target across relevant scopes to 
further pursue efforts to meet the 1.5°C target by 2030. 
We are proud to report that we were among the 1,045 global companies in 2021 that pledged to support the UN Global Compact’s Business 
Ambition for 1.5°C. This is a significant step towards leading Malaysian industries in working towards net zero carbon emissions by 2050. 
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 57 =====
Part 9 STRATEGY STRATEGY
108
Sarawak Energy Berhad 109
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
102-15, 103-2, 305-4103-3, 305-1, 305-4
In the year under review, our total main grid emissions were 5.98 million tCO 2eq, which was a 7% increase from 2020, mainly due to the 
full operation of our Tanjung Kidurong Combined Cycle Power Plant in 2021. Our emissions intensity of 0.198 tCO 2eq/MWh* continues to 
be one of the lowest in comparison with other international power utility companies.
International Comparison of CO 2 Emissions Intensity among Power Utility Companies
tCO2eq/MWh
0.800
0.700
0.600
0.500
0.400
0.300
0.200
0.100
0.000
Sarawak 
Energy 
SR2021
Hydro 
Quebec 
SR2021
Iberdrola
SR2021
Norsk 
Hydro 
AR2021
CLP  
SR2021
Tata Power
IR2020-2021
Enel 
SR2021
EDF 
URD2021
TNB 
IR2021
0.198*
0.098
0.570
0.227
0.001 0.001
0.687
0.048
0.550
Notes:
1 Published Annual, Sustainability & Integrated Reports 2021.
* This main grid CO 2 emissions intensity data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
CLIMATE ACTION STEWARDSHIP 
THROUGH SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
CLIMATE ACTION STEWARDSHIP 
THROUGH SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
Note:
* These main grid CO 2 emissions intensity and northern grid CO 2 emissions intensity data have been assured 
by a third party. Read the Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Sarawak Energy CO 2 Emissions Intensity Based on Grids 
Lawas P/S 15.6MW
Limbang P/S 22MW
Batang Ai HEP 108MW
Murum HEP 944MW
Bakun HEP 2,400MW
Sejingkat Power 
Corporation 
P/S 210MW
Miri P/S 102MW
Bintulu P/S 165MW
Sarawak Power Generation
P/S 317MW
Mukah Power Generation 
P/S 270MW
Diesel Power Plant
Gas Power Plant
Coal Power Plant
Hydroelectric Plant
Main Grid CO 2 Emissions Intensity - 0.198 tCO 2eq/ MWh*
Northern Grid CO 2 Emissions Intensity - 0.600 tCO 2eq/ MWh*
Stand-Alone Grids CO 2 Emissions Intensity - 0.776 tCO 2eq/ MWh
BUILDING BUSINESS RESILIENCE
Building resilience towards climate change
Other and variable renewable energy
Disruptive technologies/digitalisation
Sustainable hydropower
Renewable Energy Certificate
Sarawak Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) mechanism was launched in 2019 and began embarking on the REC journey with Tradable 
Instrument for Global Renewables (TIGR) registry for REC supply from Batang Ai Hydroelectric Plant to enable corporate purchases of 
certified renewable energy in Sarawak. 
Since 2019, Sarawak Energy has been supporting business organisations from various industries including petrochemical, manufacturing 
and financial service in attaining the REC to bolster their sustainability journey. In 2021 alone, Sarawak Energy has committed a total of 
245,424 RECs (MWh). The year under review also saw Sarawak Energy working closely with International Renewable Energy Certificate 
(I-REC) registry to provide REC from Murum Hydroelectricity Plant.
Aspiration for Sarawak REC Mechanism
With a strong commitment to providing a sustainable energy future for Sarawak, Sarawak Energy will continue to collaborate and work 
closely with REC registries and business organisations from all sectors to strengthen our REC mechanism in Sarawak. This is amid the 
aspiration for REC to catalyse renewable energy development through increased sustainability awareness and higher renewable energy 
usage among industry players. The support and participation of corporate organisations will contribute to the opening of more renewable 
energy plants, accelerating Sarawak’s transition towards a low-carbon economy.  
Residual Mix Emissions Rate
Sarawak’s residual mix emissions rate in 2021 is shown in the table below. The rate was assessed using REC sales data collected from 
the REC tracking registry, Sarawak Energy’s annual power generation data and emissions rates for the publication period.
5,976,874.06 tCO 2eq 
Main Grid
0.198 tCO2eq/MWh*
Emissions Rate  
0.201 tCO2eq/MWh
Residual mix emissions rate 
30,162,881.89 MWh*
Net Generation
449,911 MWh
Voluntary RE
Note:
1 The residual mix emissions rate is only applicable for the Sarawak main grid.
* These main grid CO 2 emissions intensity and net energy generated data have been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on  
pages 178-182.
DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND DIGITALISATION
Digitalising Sarawak Energy
As Sarawak’s key provider of electricity, we have continuously sought out innovative solutions and new technologies to improve our 
operations and processes. Our transformation is vital, as times are changing with digitalisation at the forefront, reshaping the way we 
operate to serve a global digital economy. We are committed to learning and adopting new technologies to stay relevant and to increase 
our value to gain competitive advantage.
With an increased global focus on sustainability, economic, social, environmental and governance concerns, many changes have taken 
place in the business landscape. It has become necessary to invest in information and communications technology in today’s business 
climate.
Tunku Abdul Rahman 
(Biawak) 64MW

===== ASR2021 page 67 =====
Part 9 STRATEGY STRATEGY
128
Sarawak Energy Berhad 129
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
102-15, 103-2, 103-3, 301-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 306-1, 306-3, EU2102-15, 103-2, 103-3, 301-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 306-1, 306-3
Input
OUR RESPONSE
TO CLIMATE CHANGE
Scheduled Waste Generation 
Type of Waste Unit 2020 2021
Fly Ash Tonne 78,183.21 152,605.28
Bottom Ash Tonne 194,414.13 243,874.85
Others (Used Oil, Contaminated Items, E-Waste, Gas Condensate, 
Contaminated Soil and Chemicals)
Tonne 320.27 652.97
Total Scheduled Waste Generation Tonne 272,917.611 397,133.10*
Fuel Consumption
Fuel Consumption Intensity
Coal Consumption 
2,684,065.69  Tonne
1
2021
2,940,286.82  
Tonne*
2020
Coal Consumption 
Intensity
2021
1,566.85  
MJ/MWh
1,531.23  MJ/MWh
2020
Water Withdrawal Intensity by Source Water Regulated Intensity for Hydropower
Water Volume Regulated by Hydropower Plants 
for Electricity Generation
2021
2,274.27  
M3/MWh
Municipal Water  
Withdrawal Intensity
2021
0.08 
M3/MWh
0.08 M3/MWh
2020
Sea Water or Other 
Natural Water Source 
Withdrawal Intensity
2021
33.10 
M3/MWh
23.87 M3/MWh
2020
2,275.56  M3/MWh
2020
Natural Gas Consumption 
Intensity
2021
1,115.95  
MJ/MWh
1,228.44  MJ/MWh
2020
Diesel Consumption 
Intensity
2021
75.13 
MJ/MWh
82.23 MJ/MWh
2020
Total Fuel Consumption 
Intensity
2021
2,757.92  
MJ/MWh
2,841.90  MJ/MWh
2020
Natural Gas Consumption
33,066,287.95  MMBtu
1
2021
32,806,349.50  MMBtu *
2020
Diesel Consumption
24,301,619.57  Litre
1
2021
26,313,382.07  Litre*
2020
OUR RESPONSE
TO CLIMATE CHANGE
Output
Scheduled Waste Generation 
Type of Waste Unit 2020 2021
Fly Ash Tonne/GWh 2.77 5.20
Bottom Ash Tonne/GWh 6.90 8.31
Others (Used Oil, Contaminated 
Items, E-Waste, Gas Condensate, 
Contaminated Soil and Chemicals)
Tonne/GWh 0.01 0.02
Total Scheduled Waste Generation 
Intensity
Tonne/GWh 9.691 13.54 *
Scope 1 Emissions
Scope 2 Emissions Scope 3 Emissions
Building Electricity Consumption
(Offices & Substations)
2021
11,991.48  
tCO2eq*
13,447.19  tCO2eq
1
2020
Business air travel
2021
252.42 
tCO2
*
565.13 tCO2
1
2020
Main Grid
2021
5,976,874.06   
tCO2eq*
 5,600,892.97  
tCO2eq1
2020
Northern Grid
2021
100,595.84   
tCO2eq*
 97,829.99  
tCO2eq1
2020
Stand-alone 
Grid
2021
8,818.18   
tCO2eq*
 9,176.85  
tCO2eq1
2020
Company-owned 
Vehicle
2021
 3,766.89   
tCO2eq
 4,167.74  
tCO2eq
2020
TOTAL
2021
6,090,054.97  
tCO2eq*
 5,712,067.55  
tCO2eq
2020
Notes:
1. Scope 3 emissions (business air travel) are 
calculated using ICAO Carbon Emissions 
Calculator as on 15 March 2022.
2. Emissions in CO 2eq include Direct Scope 
1 emissions from CO 2, CH4 and N 2O.
1 These fuel consumption, volume of waste 
generated, scheduled waste generation 
intensity and net energy generated data 
have been assured by a third party for 
Sustainability Report 2020.
2 Net energy generation.
* These fuel consumption, Scope 1 (grid 
emissions – main, northern and stand-
alone), Scope 2 (buildings and offices), 
Scope 3 (business air travel), volume 
of waste generated, scheduled waste 
generation intensity and net energy 
generated data have been assured by 
a third party. Read the Independent 
Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
Scope 1 and Scope 2  
Emissions Intensity Unit 2020 2021
Scope 1 Emissions Intensity
(normalised by gross energy)
tCO2eq/MWh 0.201 0.196
Scope 1 Emissions Intensity  
(normalised by net energy)
tCO2eq/MWh 0.206 0.201
Scope 2 Emissions Intensity
(normalised by gross energy)
tCO2eq/MWh 0.000474 0.000387
Scope 2 Emissions Intensity  
(normalised by net energy)
tCO2eq/MWh 0.000485 0.000395
Non-renewable Energy Renewable Energy
5,929 
GWh1 
22%
6,991 
GWh* 
23%
21,606 
GWh1 
78%
23,172 
GWh* 
77%
2020 
GENERATION 
MIX2
2021 
GENERATION 
MIX2
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 69 =====
Part 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
132
Sarawak Energy Berhad 133
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1203-2
EMBRACING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
Sarawak’s GDP grew by 18.84% 1 in 2021 compared to a 8.67% drop in 2020. This improvement is due to the government’s move to 
transition the country to endemicity. The relaxing of COVID-19 countermeasures has led to a higher electricity consumption as businesses 
enter a recovery phase. 
Renewable energy and hydropower continued to be the primary driver of Sarawak’s economic growth and accounted for 76.82% of the 
power generated by the Company in 2021.
Note:
1 Source: Department of Statistics Malaysia (DOSM).
GWh
2021
GDP (RM) Per Capita
MWH Per Capita
10,000
0
40,000
20,000
50,000
30,000
60,000
1.0
0
4.0
2.0
5.0
3.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
GDP (RM) Per Capita Electricity Consumption 
(MWh) Per Capita
Electricity Intensity - Electricity Consumption Per 
Sarawak GDP 2017 - 2021
Renewable Energy Generated vs Operating Expenses 
Ratio 2017 - 2021Percentage (%)
10%
0
40%
20%
50%
30%
60%
5,000
0
20,000
10,000
25,000
15,000
2021
Renewable Energy 
Generated (GWh)
Operating Expenses 
Ratio (%)
2017 2018 2019 2020
Electricity 
Sales (GWh) 
9.08% 
from 2020
11.74% 
from 2020
7.93% 
from 2020 4% 
257.47% 
from 2011
28,590 GWh 21.64% 
from 2020
Operating 
Expenses Ratio (%) 
Net Profit 
Margin Ratio
Electricity Sales 
(RM) 
Per Sarawak GDP 
Electricity 
Consumption  
Per Capita
Operating 
Costs (RM)
Total Electricity 
Sales
+9.32%
from 2020
2017 2018 2019 2020
EMBRACING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
SUPPORTING LOCAL BUSINESSES  
As the primary energy provider in Sarawak, we are aware that we have a role in helping Sarawak achieve sustainable growth and boost 
local businesses. Supporting local suppliers and companies can potentially attract additional investment into the local economy and 
improve our relationship with the local communities. 
In 2021, Sarawakian and Malaysian (non-Sarawakian) companies won the bulk of the Company’s total projects, valued at RM1,818 million
Sarawakian firms garnered 59% of the projects, amounting to RM1,397.04 million*. 
Our overall total value of projects appreciated in 2021 as we are looking to return to pre-COVID-19 profit levels and plan to expand and 
grow as the country transition to endemicity.
2020 vs 2021
Status 2020 2021
Sarawakian 1,151,800,210.86 1 1,397,036,132.81* 
Malaysian (Non-Sarawakian) 112,843,633.26 420,931,407.34 
International 156,363,049.30 557,365,619.97
Overall Total 1,421,006,893.42 2,375,333,160.12
Notes:
1 This total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies’ data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
* This total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies’ data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report 178-182.
Total Tenders Awarded by Category
1,238,701,902.57 2 
65%
1,151,800,210.86 1 
81%
1,397,036,132.81*
59%
328,819,029.00 
17%
420,931,407.34 
18%
352,144,759.00 
18%
156,363,049.30 
11%
557,365,619.97 
23%
112,843,633.26 
8%
Sarawakian – Bumi & Non-Bumi (RM) Malaysian - Non-Sarawakian (RM) International (RM)
Notes:
1  This total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies’ data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
2  This total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies’ data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2019.
*  This total value of tenders awarded to local Sarawakian companies’ data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report 178-182. 
Total 2019
1,919,665,690.57
Total 2020
1,421,006,893.42
Total 2021
2,375,333,160.12
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 70 =====
Part 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
134
Sarawak Energy Berhad 135
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-1
MEETING SARAWAK’S ENERGY NEEDS  
In 2021, energy demand from Sarawak Energy increased by 9% 
in comparison to 2020. This was attributable to the increase in 
power off-take from industrial customers recovery post COVID-19 
and additional bulk power requirements. In addition, the increase 
in organic growth also attributed to the higher demand overall 
demand in the year. Given the current economic climate, Sarawak 
Energy expects demand to increase to ~5,100 MW by 2025.
The Company’s total electricity sales by customer category for 
2021 is as follows:
Electricity Sales 
(GWh)
- by customer 
type
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Domestic 2,149 2,368 2,401 2,620 2.867
Commercial 2,575 2,857 2,767 2,584 2,620
Industrial 2,027 2,367 2,297 2,329 2,298
Public Lighting 88 110 104 109 109
Bulk Customers 16,836 18,123 19,620 18,569 20,696
Total Electricity 
Sales
23,675 25,825 27,189 26,211 28,590
Existing 275kV Substation
Existing 275kV Transmission Line
Future 500kV Transmission Line
Existing 132kV Substation
Existing 132kV Transmission Line
Future 275kV Transmission Line
500kV Transmission Line Energised at 275kV
Future 132kV Transmission Line
Power Exchange
Future 500/275/132kV Substations
EMBRACING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.
1 Lawas 275/33kV S/S
2 Limbang Town 275/33kV 
S/S
3 Tudan 275/132/33kV S/S
4 Eastwood 132/33kV S/S
5 Miri OCGT P/S 102MW
6 Bunut 500/275/33kV S/S
7 Samalaju B 275/132/33kV 
S/S
8 Samalaju 275/132/33kV 
S/S
9 Similajau 500/275/33kV 
S/S
10 Bintulu 275/132kV S/S
11 Bintulu B 275/132kV S/S
12 Kemena 275/132/33kV S/S
13 Matadeng 132/33kV S/S
14 Tanjung Kidurong CCGT 
P/S 421MW
15 Sarawak Power 
Generation P/S 317MW
16 Bintulu OCGT P/S 165MW
17 Tanjung Kidurong 
132/33/11kV S/S
18 Sibiyu 132/33/11kV S/S
19 Mukah Power Generation 
P/S 270MW
20 Petian 132/33kV S/S
21 Murum Junction 275/33kV 
S/S
22 Bakun HEP 2,400MW
23 Murum HEP 944MW
24 Balingian P/S 624MW
25 Balingian 275/33kV
26 Selangau 275/132/33kV 
S/S
27 Deshon 132/33kV S/S
28 Oya 275/132/33/11kV S/S
29 Mapai 500/275/33kV S/S
30 Kemantan 
275/132/33/11kV S/S
31 Song 132/33/11kV S/S
32 Kapit 132/33/11kV S/S
33 Daro 132/33kV S/S
34 Sg Maaw 132/33kV S/S
35 Salim 132/33kV S/S
36 Tanjung Manis B 132/33kV 
S/S
37 Tanjung Manis 
132/33/11kV S/S
38 Sarikei 132/33/11kV S/S
39 Sejingkat Power 
Corporation P/S 210MW
40 Serudit 275/132/33kV S/S
41 Batang Ai HEP 108MW
42 Muara Tabuan 132/33kV 
S/S
43 Samajaya 132/33kV S/S
44 Entinggan 275/132/33kV 
S/S
45 Entinggan B 275/132/33kV 
S/S
46 Mambong 275/132/33kV 
S/S
47 Lachau 275/33kV S/S
48 Engkilili 275/33/11KV S/S
49 Sejingkat 132/33kV S/S
50 Astana 132/33kV S/S
51 Mendu 132/33kV S/S
52 Matang 275/132/33kV S/S
53 Transmitting 132/33kV S/S
54 Tondong 500/275/33kV 
S/S
55 Semenggo 132/33kV S/S
56 Stakan 132/33kV S/S
57 MJC 132/33kV S/S
58 Sungai Merah 132kV S/S
59 Marudi Junction 
275/132/33kV S/S
60 Kota 2 HEP 11.1MW
61 Lawas P/S 15.6MW
62 Limbang P/S 22MW
63 Tunku Abdul Rahman 
(Biawak) 64MW
EMBRACING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
Transmission Network 2021
BALEH HEP 1,285MW
UNIT 1 - YEAR 2025
UNIT 2,3,4,5 - YEAR 2026
West
Kalimantan
Sabah
(Future)


===== ASR2021 page 71 =====
Part 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
136
Sarawak Energy Berhad 137
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-3, EU28, EU29103-3, EU1, EU2, EU10, EU30
GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT CAPACITY (MW) – BY ENERGY SOURCE  
The Company’s grid connected power plant capacity increased with total installed capacity 
at 5,358 MW in 2021. Firm capacity saw an increase to 4,300 MW compared to 4,227 MW 
in 2020.
GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT CAPACITY (MW) – BY ENERGY SOURCE
GRID ENERGY MIX (GWh) 2 – BY ENERGY SOURCE
IMPROVING RELIABILITY  
AND RESILIENCE 
Sarawak Energy prides itself on being a 
dependable supplier of energy, and has a 
proven record of steady, uninterrupted and 
strong power supply at the plant, transmission 
and distribution stages. 
We continue to provide excellent service to our 
customers and have seen reliably improving 
metrics that have validated the efficacy of our 
initiatives over the past few years.
Notes:
1. Equivalent Availability Factor (EAF) and 
Availability Factor (AF) using simple average.
1 Consists of Sg. Biawak, Limbang & Lawas Diesel-
Fired Power Plants.
Notes:
1 This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
2 Net energy generation.
* This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance 
Report on pages 178-182.
2011 2021
Hydro
(+242.46%)
1,008
3,452
2011 2021
Coal
(+130%)
480
1,104
Gas
2011 2021
(+24.03%)
595
738
2011 2021
Diesel
(-43.86%)
114
64
Hydropower 
Plant Average 
Availability Factor
95.09%
Gas-fired Power 
Plant Equivalent 
Availability Factor 
81.59%
Coal-fired Power 
Plant Equivalent 
Availability Factor
84.61%
Diesel-fired Power 
Plant Equivalent 
Availability Factor 1
86.08%
Hydro Coal Gas
21,606 1
78%
2,884 1
11% 23,172*
77%
3,712*
12%
3,279*
11%
EMBRACING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
3,046 1
11%
Total Grid 
Energy
Mix in 2020:
27,536 GWh 1
Total Grid 
Energy
Mix in 2021:
30,163 GWh*
In December 2021, we commissioned 40 motorised Ring Main Units (RMU) to automate our distribution equipment during power outage. 
We identified 21 critical feeders for the motorised RMU project in Kuching. 
SAIDI (min per customer)
International Comparison Of SAIDI for Power Utility CompaniesMinutes/Customers/Year
300.00
250.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
0.00
Sarawak 
Energy 
SR2021
EDF 
URD2021
Iberdrola
SR2021
TNB 
IR2021
CLP  
SR2021
Enel 
SR2021
84.78
38.00
13.80
243.00
56.88
45.25
202020192017 2018
110.06
95.81 83.42
77.68
0.9211.283.65
30.96
2020 202120192017 2018
1.28
1.20 1.07
1.02 1.01
0.06
0.370.45
0.23
0.68
84.78
20.99
2021
SAIFI (interruptions per customer)
Distribution Transmission Distribution Transmission
EMBRACING LOW CARBON ECONOMY
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 76 =====
Part 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
146
Sarawak Energy Berhad 147
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-1, 103-2, 303-1, 304-1, 304-2301-1, 303-2, 303-3, 305-7
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT
Water for Power Generation
53,075.13  
million m 3*
Water withdrawn  
(Cooling process)
1,021 million m 3*
Total Annual Water Volume 
Intensity for Energy Generation
2,274.27 m3/MWh
Seawater or Other Natural Water 
Source Withdrawal Intensity
33.10 m3/MWh
SOx and NO x Emissions Intensity 
(Main Grid)
SOx : 2.85 x 10 -5
NOx : 7.47 x 10 -5
Note:
* These total water withdrawn by source 
and annual water volume for electricity 
generation data have been assured by 
a third party. Read the Independent 
Assurance Report on 178-182.
WATER 
MANAGEMENT
As a power producer, water plays an 
integral role to all our operations. Water 
is used both as a source of power for 
our hydroelectric plants and a key 
component for cooling our thermal 
power plants. We are committed to the 
sustainable use of water and invest in 
new technology to minimise our impact 
on natural water resources. 
Hydropower
Enseluai Waterfall at Ulu Ai, Batang Ai.
Thermal
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT
Management Technical
Good Practices in Catchment 
Management
Water Resource, Hydrology & 
Sedimentation
Hydropower Sustainability 
Assessment Protocol (HSAP)
Reservoir Storage & Lifespan
Addressing Sustainability Issues 
– Long-Term Risks
Maintenance
Realignment – International, 
National & State Levels
Biodiversity
Advocating and Communicating 
Good Catchment Management 
Practices
Social & Environment
SARAWAK ENERGY INTEGRATED CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT STRATEGY – SAFEGUARD UPSTREAM WATER RESOURCE
CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT POLICY, PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES FOR HYDROPOWER
OVERVIEW OF THE OVERALL CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT STUDY
Sarawak 
Energy
(Catchment 
Management)
The scope of work for the Catchment Management Study consists of three main components:
• Conservation & 
Gazettement
• Land Use
• Socio-economic & 
Livelihood
• Conservation Planning 
& Priority Conservation 
Area
• Stakeholder 
Engagement
• Management Practices
• Catchment 
Management Roadmap
• Inventory of Biodiversity 
– Heart of Borneo (HoB)
• Information & 
Monitoring- Common 
Baselines
• Sedimentation 
Management
• Ecosystem Services
• Monitoring Land Use
• Environmental Flow
01
Catchment  
Management Policy
02
Catchment Management
Procedures & Guidelines
03
Catchment Management Initiatives
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 77 =====
Part 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
148
Sarawak Energy Berhad 149
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
103-2301-1
Notes:
1 This annual water volume for electricity generation data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
2 This annual water volume for electricity generation data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2019.
3 This annual water volume for electricity generation data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2018.
4 This annual water volume for electricity generation data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2017.
* This annual water volume for electricity generation data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT
ANNUAL WATER VOLUME INTENSITY FOR ENERGY GENERATION
Hydro Plant Data Unit 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Batang Ai
Annual Inflow million m 3 3,658.00 3,576.00 2,852.00 4,255.00 3,651.00 
Annual Water Volume for Energy 
Generation
million m 3 3,396.73 4 3,646.50 3 2,844.00 2 3,974.38 1 3,617.61 *
Annual Energy Generated GWh 442.32 481.00 391.00 518.00 476.00 
Murum
Annual Inflow million m 3 10,933.00 7,737.00 8,183.00 9,993.00 9,660.00 
Annual Water Volume for Energy 
Generation
million m 3 7,503.32 7,932.00 7,482.00 8,321.00 8,321.00 
million m 3 
(including 
EPS)
7,567.19 4 8,022.00 3 7,532.00 2 8,548.94 1 8,583.01 * 
Annual Energy Generated GWh 5,717.39 6,094.00 5,714.00 6,415.00 6,484.00 
Bakun
Annual Inflow million m 3 49,794.00 40,481.00 40,373.00 55,730.00 49,894.00 
Annual Water Volume for Energy 
Generation
million m 3 32,961.65 4 36,148.11 3 38,827.00 2 36,965.72 1 40,874.51 *
Annual Energy Generated GWh 13,078.27 14,482.00 15,544.00 14,803.00 16,376.00 
Total Annual Water Volume for Energy 
Generation million m 3 43,925.57 4 47,816.61 3 49,203.00 2 49,489.05 1 53,075.13 *
Total Annual Water Volume Intensity for Energy 
Generation (Hydro Main Grid Gross Energy) m3/MWh 2,266.64 2,273.42 2,271.48 2,275.56 2,274.27 
In 2021, we established the following stations to improve our water management at Bakun HEP:
Installation of Bakun  
Water Level Station at 
Bakun Intake
The establishment of this new water level station 
enables us to collect more data within the basin and 
to make inflow forecasts and the simulation model for 
water level forecasting more reliable and accurate.
Installation of Bakun  
Weather Station at
Bakun Intake
The weather station provides real-time data for 
monitoring purposes. Data measured includes 
atmospheric pressure, humidity, wind speed, wind 
direction and precipitation.
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT
Bakun HEP.
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 79 =====
Part 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
152
Sarawak Energy Berhad 153
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
Industrial Effluent Treatment System (IETS) & Sewage Treatment 
System (STS): Design and Operation Requirements (virtual)
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) Reviewer’s Training 
(virtual)
Air Pollution Control System (APCS) and Fuel Burning Equipment 
(FBE): Design and Operation Requirements (virtual) Corporate HSSE Week: Emerging Water Pollutants Talk
Erosion and Sediment Control (ESC) Reviewer’s Training (virtual) Corporate HSSE Week: Wildlife Protection Talk
Refresher Environmental Training 2021
103-2, 103-3, 307-1103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-7, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 307-1
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT
SCHEDULED WASTE MANAGEMENT
We comply with the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulation 2005 and ensure that our scheduled waste is responsibly 
disposed of. Monthly inventory reporting is implemented across our operations, and we have engaged external contractors to collect 
and responsibly dispose of our scheduled waste. Unfortunately, despite our best efforts, the Company was fined RM 2,000 in Long Lama 
Power Station and RM 4,000 in the Central Region Office for violating the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulation 2005. 
Among the incidents were due to used battery stored exceedingly more than 180 days, no dedicated waste storage in place, exceeding the 
permitted storage limit, as well as absent of proper labelling. We have conducted the assessment, and all have been rectified accordingly. 
Scheduled Waste Generation IntensityTonne/GWh
Bottom 
Ash
Total Scheduled Waste Generation 
Intensity
Others (Used Oil, Contaminated Items, E-Waste, Gas 
Condensate, Contaminated Soil and Chemicals)
Fly 
Ash
2017 2018 2019 2020
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
10.00
7.00
11.00
8.00
12.00
9.00
13.00
14.00
6.17
4.91
5.712
3.62
3.19
2.82
2.772.89
1.70
2.54
0.01 0.02 0.02 0.01
2021
0.02
5.20
6.90
8.31
9.691
13.54 *
Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Parameter Unit
Total SOX and NOX Emissions
SOX Tonne 3,720.17 1,656.62 454.33 3.589.52 858.73
NOX Tonne 1,893.59 1,046.51 2,307.27 5,433.16 2,251.75
SOX and NOX Emissions Intensity
SOX kg/kWh 0.00014894 0.00006212 0.00001673 0.00013139 0.00002848
NOX kg/kWh 0.00007581 0.00003924 0.00008504 0.00019884 0.00007466
Notes:
1 This scheduled waste generation intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
2 This scheduled waste generation intensity data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability Report 2019.
* This scheduled waste generation intensity data has been assured by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178-182.
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Sarawak Energy is committed to ensuring full compliance with all laws and regulations. Our Internal Environmental Compliance Audit 
(IECA) is a core part of our commitment to ensuring that we are operating in compliance with EIA conditions and other environmental 
regulations. It is a self-regulatory process undertaken internally to detect incidences of non-compliance and ensure corrective action and/
or preventive measures are put in place prior to any inspections by a third-party of regulatory authority. The IECA is applied to all our 
11 major projects that require EIA/EMP approval and is conducted quarterly for the substation, transmission line, coal mining, Balingian 
operator village and Tanjung Kidurong Combined Cycle Power Plant projects and yearly for Baleh HEP . 
In 2021, all 11 Sarawak Energy projects (construction stage) recorded zero penalties/fines from Federal or State environmental authorities. 
ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING
Our operations require specific skills and knowledge on environmental management and regulations. To ensure environmental excellence 
across our operations, we provide regular training on various environmental management topics relevant to our operations.
Contractor EIA Compliance Award (CECA) 2020
Since 2017, Sarawak Energy has been encouraging environmental excellence among our contractors through the CECA. 
The awards have helped increase motivation and commitment towards environmental compliance, resulting in improved 
environmental performance. A total of 14 contractors undertaking thermal, hydro, transmission lines and substations projects 
were assessed, with 13 making the cut.
No. of Companies
SilverGold Bronze Merit
2021 2020
4 3
2022 2020
3 2
2021 2020
4 7
2021 2020
2 2

===== ASR2021 page 98 =====
Part 12 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX
190
Sarawak Energy Berhad 191
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
102-55102-55
Disclosure 
Number
Disclosure Title Page/Direct Reference External 
Assurance
SDG linkage to 
Disclosure
TCFD
GRI 301: Materials 2016
301-1 Materials used by 
weight or volume
Internalising the Global Sustainability Agenda, p. 99;
Creating Long-Term Value, p. 100;
Our Response to Climate Change, p. 128 – 129;
Preserving the Environment, p. 146 & 148
Category: Non-Renewable Materials Used (2017 - 2021)
Plant 
Type
Volume
(Year 2017)
Volume
(Year 2018)
Volume
(Year 2019)
Volume
(Year 2020)
Volume
(Year 2021)
Unit
Coal 2,228,768.01 4 2,038,842.213 3,064,825.622 2,684,065.691 2,940,286.82* Tonne
Diesela 15,675,168.404 20,393,035.803 12,584,999.552 24,301,619.571 26,313,382.07* Litre
Natural 
Gas
34,262,495.104 35,891,301.463 36,756,369.742 33,066,287.951 32,806,349.50* mmbtu
Note: 
a Diesel – excluding Limbang & Lawas
Yes No 8 - Promote 
sustained, inclusive 
and sustainable 
economic growth, 
full and productive 
employment and 
decent work for all
No 12 - Ensure 
sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns
TCFD
Water and Effluents
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
Creating Long-Term Value, p. 100;
Preserving the Environment, p. 147
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components
Creating Long-Term Value, p. 100;
Our Response to Climate Change, p. 128 – 129;
Preserving the Environment, p. 147 & p. 149 - 150
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management 
approach
Our Response to Climate Change, p. 128 – 129;
Preserving the Environment, p. 150 - 151
Category: Renewable Materials
Major Plant Year
Annual Inflow 
(million m3) 
(annual inflow 
from catchment)
Annual water 
volume for 
energy 
generation 
(million m3)
Annual 
energy 
generated 
(GWh)
Annual water 
consumption 
(million m3) 
(Spillway 
discharge)
Batang Ai 2021 3,651 3,618* 476 -
2020 4,255 3,9741 518 -
2019 2,852 2,8442 391 -
2018 3,576 3,6473 481 -
2017 3,658 3,3974 442 -
Murum 2021 9,660 8,583* 6,484 1,159
2020 9,993 8,5491 6,415 1,446
2019 8,183 7,5322 5,714 -
2018 7,737 8,0223 6,094 432
2017 10,933 7,5674 5,717 3,588
Bakun 2021 49,894 40,875* 16,376 10,436
2020 55,730 36,9661 14,803  15,589
2019 40,373 38,8272 15,544 -
2018 40,481 36,1483 14,482 4,761
2017 49,794 32,9624 13,078 16,948
 
Notes:
1 This annual water volume for electricity generation data and fuel consumption have been assured 
by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020.
2 This annual water volume for electricity generation data and fuel consumption have been assured 
by a third party for Sustainability Report 2019.
3 This annual water volume for electricity generation data and fuel consumption have been assured 
by a third party for Sustainability Report 2018.
4 This annual water volume for electricity generation data has been assured by a third party for 
Sustainability Report 2017.
* This annual water volume for electricity generation data and fuel consumption have been assured 
by a third party
. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178 - 182.
GRI CONTENT INDEX FOR
‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE
Disclosure 
Number
Disclosure Title Page/Direct Reference External 
Assurance
SDG linkage to 
Disclosure
TCFD
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with 
water as a shared 
resource
Preserving the Environment, p. 147 & 150 No 6 - Ensure 
availability and 
sustainable 
management of water 
and sanitation for all
303-2 Management of 
water discharge 
related impacts
Preserving the Environment, p. 146 No 6 - Ensure 
availability and 
sustainable 
management of water 
and sanitation for all
303-3 Water withdrawal Creating Long-Term Value, p. 100;
Our Response to Climate Change, p. 128 – 129;
Preserving the Environment, p. 146 & 150
Yes No 6 - Ensure 
availability and 
sustainable 
management of water 
and sanitation for allMajor 
Plant
Source 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
meter cubic (m3)
Plant Type: Coal
Sejingkat 
Power Corp 
+ PPLS 
Municipal 1,603,264.004 1,386,373.003 1,140,932.002 1,265,838.001 1,133,445.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
366,695,496.00 4 353,454,413.18 3 331,568,280.00 2 348,383,088.00 1 305,121,492.00* 
Mukah 
Power 
Generation 
Municipal 854,666.004 803,362.003 1,063,097.002 741,874.001 814,465.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
454,118,400.00 4 410,793,379.20 3 392,610,711.74 2 219,655,670.40 1 219,276,979.20* 
Balingian 
Power 
Generation
Municipal - - - N/A1 17,924.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
- - - 1,650,000.001 4,186,687.50* 
Plant Type: Combined Cycle - Natural Gas
SPG + 
Bintulu 
SESCO
Municipal 145,623.004 220,611.003 329,516.002 250,223.001 275,082.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
212,876,380.80 4   227,489,565.60 3 241,935,030.72 2 104,047,121.52 1 87,860,036.88* 
KPG Municipal - - - - 112,863.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
- - - - 404,068,140.00* 
Plant Type: Open Cycle - Natural Gas
Miri SESCO Municipal 12,154.004 9,225.003 23,803.002 29,542.001 47,638.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
 N/A4  N/A3  N/A2 N/A1  N/A* 
Plant Type: Diesel
Sg Biawak 
SESCO 
Municipal 21,192.004 13,952.503 6,896.132 1,731.511 4,417.00* 
Sea water or 
other natural 
water source
1,171,360.004 69,650.003 -2 -1 -*   
Non Grid - 
Limbang 
Municipal 19.44 22,992.00 40,859.00 41,251.00 43,936.00 
Non Grid - 
Lawas
Municipal 299.00  656.00 2,837.00 3,700.00 4,220.00 
Notes:
1 This total water withdrawal by source data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2020.
2 This total water withdrawal by source data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2019.
3 This total water withdrawal by source data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2018.
4 This total water withdrawal by source data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2017.
* This total water withdrawal by source data has been assured by a third party. Read the
 
Independent Assurance Report on pages 178 - 182.
GRI CONTENT INDEX FOR
‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE

===== ASR2021 page 100 =====
Part 12 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX
194
Sarawak Energy Berhad 195
Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
102-55102-55
Disclosure 
Number
Disclosure Title Page/Direct Reference External 
Assurance
SDG linkage to 
Disclosure
TCFD
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissions
Renewable Energy for Sarawak & Beyond, p. 9;
Climate Action Stewardship Through Sustainable Solutions, 
p. 106 & 108;
Our Response to Climate Change, p. 121 & 126 - 129
Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tonne of 
CO2 equivalent
Grid Total 
Emissions
(tCO2) 
(2017)
Total 
Emissions
(tCO2) 
 (2018)
Total 
Emissions
(tCO2eq) 
 (2019)
Total 
Emissions
(tCO2eq) 
 (2020)
Total 
Emissions
(tCO2eq) 
 (2021)
Main 5,325,836.68 5,151,395.75 6,348,254.39 2 5,600,892.97 1 5,976,874.06*
Northern 98,042.77 102,837.43 104,477.64 2 97,829.99 1 100,595.84*
Stand-Alone 11,033.58 13,812.44 14,453.34 2 9,176.85 1 8,818.18*
Company-owned
Vehicles
4,947.31 5,189.96 5,353.45 4,167.74 3,766.89
Total tCO2eq 
Emissions
5,439,860.34 5,273,235.58 6,472,538.82 5,712,067.55 6,090,054.97
Total CO2 Emissions (Main Grid)
POWER STATION  
(MAIN GRID)
2017
(tCO2)
2018
(tCO2)
2019
(tCO2eq) 
2020
(tCO2eq) 
2021
(tCO2eq) 
Sejingkat Power 
Corp. 
916,769.06 854,293.99 679,890.56 671,849.96 462,019.95
PPLS Power 
Generation 
848,625.75 707,251.87 697,347.40 650,276.32 605,853.28
Mukah Power 
Sdn. Bhd. 
1,658,355.86 1,609,253.91 1,585,818.75 871,167.29 895,037.02
Balingian Power 
Generation
- - 1,423,412.27 1,605,680.74 2,234,823.71
Sarawak Power 
Generation 
825,960.98 950,543.09 950,462.21 749,873.97 600,125.08
Kidurong Power 
Generation
- - - 103,455.03 668,870.02
Bintulu PS 526,667.34 545,729.43 520,329.19 520,956.75 167,782.04
Miri PS 533,748.96 483,172.32 488,542.53 427,168.65 341,586.19
Sg Biawak PS 15,708.73 1,151.14 2,451.47 464.25 776.76
Total tCO2eq 
Emissions  
(Main Grid)
5,325,836.68 5,151,395.75 6,348,254.39 ¹ 5,600.892.97 1 5,976,874.06*
Total CO2 Emissions (Northern Grid)
POWER STATION  
(NORTHERN 
GRID)
2017
(tCO2)
2018
(tCO2)
2019
(tCO2eq)
2020
(tCO2eq)
2021
(tCO2eq)
Limbang PS 61,989.99 64,433.37 63,744.59 64,646.28 67,682.00
Lawas PS 36,052.77 38,404.06 40,733.05 33,183.71 32,913.84
Total tCO2eq 
Emissions
(Northern Grid)
98,042.76 102,837.43 104,477.64 1 97,829.99 1 100,595.84*
Notes:
1.  Emissions in CO 2eq include Direct Scope 1 emissions from CO 2, CH4 and N2O.
1 This Scope 1 (grid emissions - main, northern and stand-alone) data has been 
assur
ed by a third party for Sustainability Report 2020. 
*  This Scope 1 (grid emissions - main, northern and stand-alone) data has been 
assur
ed by a third party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages  
178 - 182.
Yes No 3 – Ensure healthy 
lives and promote 
wellbeing for all at all 
ages
No 12 – Ensure 
sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns
No 13 – Take urgent 
action to combat 
climate change and 
its impacts
No 14 – Conserve 
and sustainably use 
the oceans, seas and 
marine resources 
for sustainable 
development
No 15 - Protect, 
restore and promote 
sustainable use 
of terrestrial 
ecosystems, 
sustainably manage 
forests, combat 
desertification, and 
halt and reverse land 
degradation and halt 
biodiversity loss
TCFD
GRI CONTENT INDEX FOR
‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE
Disclosure 
Number
Disclosure Title Page/Direct Reference External 
Assurance
SDG linkage to 
Disclosure
TCFD
Total Overall Stand-alone Grid CO 2 Emissions  
(Whole Sarawak)
Total Net Energy Generated for Main Grids
Plant Type POWER 
STATION 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Coal Sejingkat 
Power Corp.
684,111.00 593,489.90 3 505,914.492 494,902.101 330,743.60*
Coal PPLS Power 
Generation
673,687.00 614,127.50 3 518,672.852 516,329.801 500,261.90*
Coal Mukah Power 
Sdn. Bhd.
1,494,404.00 1,401,963.65 3 1,343,966.902 770,626.401 776,398.80*
Coal Balingian Power 
Generation
- - 1,421,724.402 1,263,976.371 2,104,908.50*
BTU-Combined 
Cycle
Sarawak Power 
Generation
1,738,199.00 2,023,026.02 3 2,106,253.752 1,594,561.401 1,073,279.19*
BTU-Combined 
Cycle
Kidurong Power 
Generation
- - - 212,114.571 1,626,879.19*
BTU-Open Cycle Bintulu PS 614,311.00 661,306.76 3 615,465.592 608,672.491 204,363.70*
Miri-Open Cycle Miri PS 516,563.00 487,506.50 3 535,371.432 468,368.981 374,955.17*
Diesel-Standby Sg Biawak PS 16,183.00 -567.91 3 887.782 -787.571 -494.26*
Total MWh 5,737,458.00 5,780,852.42 3 7,048,257.182 5,928,764.541 6,991,295.79*
Total Net Energy Generated for Main Grids
Plant Type Plant 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Hydropower Batang Ai 442,324.00 480,586.75 3 386,993.392 517,434.531 475,024.49*
Hydropower Bakun 13,078,267.00 14,351,890.00 3 15,424,402.002 14,680,879.001 16,239,095.00*
Hydropower Murum 5,717,385.00 6,053,056.70 3 5,688,832.302 6,406,413.201 6,456,371.70*
Hydropower Lundu PS 2,618.21 2,852.54 3 3,024.102 1,637.741  1,094.91*
Total MWh 19,240,594.21 20,888,385.98 3 21,503,251.792 21,606,364.481 23,171,586.10*
Notes:
1 This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2020.
2 This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2019.
3 This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party for Sustainability 
Report 2018.
*  This net energy generated data has been assured by a third party. Read the
 
Independent Assurance Report on pages 178 - 182.
Yes TCFD
POWER STATION  
(STAND-ALONE GRID)
2017
(tCO2)
2018
(tCO2)
2019
(tCO2eq)
2020
(tCO2eq)
2021
(tCO2eq)
Kapit PS 30.09 119.98 0.00 0.00 -
Belaga PS 3,505.23 3,632.72 3,700.81 3,859.01 3,603.22
Song PS 0.00 3,066.06 4,742.08 0.00 -
Ng Mujong PS 218.59 221.73 157.66 0.00 -
Ng Ngungun PS 1,118.42 748.49 0.00 0.00 -
Ng Jagau PS 226.73 233.08 236.12 253.84 298.84
Ng Entawau PS 295.67 303.40 280.15 289.32 292.80
Mulu PS 2,033.42 1,671.70 1,524.01 1,005.82 896.63
Long Lama PS 2,762.67 2,933.86 2,927.26 2,848.51 2,759.08
Banting PS 264.05 288.33 298.80 297.26 287.88
Paloh PS 578.71 593.11 586.46 623.1 679.72
Kg Bruit PS 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 -
Kg Saai PS 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 -
Bakun - Sg Asap PS 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 -
Total tCO2eq 
Emissions  
(Stand-Alone Grid)
11,033.58 13,812.44 14,453.35 9,176.86 8,818.18*
Notes:
1. Emissions in CO 2eq include Direct Scope 1 emissions from CO 2, CH4 and N2O.
1 This Scope 1 (grid emissions - main, northern and stand-alone) data has been assured by a third  
party for Sustainability Report 2020.
* This Scope 1 (grid emissions - main, northern and stand-alone) data has been assured by a third
 
party. Read the Independent Assurance Report on pages 178 - 182.
GRI CONTENT INDEX FOR
‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE
Annual and
Sustainability
Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
GRI CONTENT
INDEX
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
ABOUT SARAWAK
ENERGY
2021 YEAR IN
REVIEW
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENTS
A COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
OUR STRATEGIC
ROADMAP
OUR
PERFORMANCE
